PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	Chao, Anne; Thorn, Simon; Chiu, Chun-Huo; Moyes, Faye; Hu, Kai-Hsiang; Chazdon, Robin L.; Wu, Jessie; Magnago, Luiz Fernando S.; Dornelas, Maria; Zeleny, David; Colwell, Robert K.; Magurran, Anne E.								Rarefaction and extrapolation with beta diversity under a framework of Hill numbers: The iNEXT.beta3D standardization								ECOLOGICAL MONOGRAPHS											10.1002/ecm.1588				2023	Based on sampling data, we propose a rigorous standardization method to measure and compare beta diversity across datasets. Here beta diversity, which quantifies the extent of among-assemblage differentiation, relies on Whittaker's original multiplicative decomposition scheme, but we use Hill numbers for any diversity order q >= 0. Richness-based beta diversity (q = 0) quantifies the extent of species identity shift, whereas abundance-based (q > 0) beta diversity also quantifies the extent of difference among assemblages in species abundance. We adopt and define the assumptions of a statistical sampling model as the foundation for our approach, treating sampling data as a representative sample taken from an assemblage. The approach makes a clear distinction between the theoretical assemblage level (unknown properties/parameters of the assemblage) and the sampling data level (empirical/observed statistics computed from data). At the assemblage level, beta diversity for N assemblages reflects the interacting effect of the species abundance distribution and spatial/temporal aggregation of individuals in the assemblage. Under independent sampling, observed beta (= gamma/alpha) diversity depends not only on among-assemblage differentiation but also on sampling effort/completeness, which in turn induces dependence of beta on alpha and gamma diversity. How to remove the dependence of richness-based beta diversity on its gamma component (species pool) has been intensely debated. Our approach is to standardize gamma and alpha based on sample coverage (an objective measure of sample completeness). For a single assemblage, the iNEXT method was developed, through interpolation (rarefaction) and extrapolation with Hill numbers, to standardize samples by sampling effort/completeness. Here we adapt the iNEXT standardization to alpha and gamma diversity, that is, alpha and gamma diversity are both assessed at the same level of sample coverage, to formulate standardized, coverage-based beta diversity. This extension of iNEXT to beta diversity required the development of novel concepts and theories, including a formal proof and simulation-based demonstration that the resulting standardized beta diversity removes the dependence of beta diversity on both gamma and alpha values, and thus reflects the pure among-assemblage differentiation. The proposed standardization is illustrated with spatial, temporal, and spatiotemporal datasets, while the freeware iNEXT.beta3D facilitates all computations and graphics.		[Chao, Anne] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Thorn, Simon] Biodivers Ctr, Hessian Agcy Nat Conservat Environm & Geol, Giessen, Germany; [Thorn, Simon] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Entomol, Biol Ctr, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Chiu, Chun-Huo] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Agron, Taipei, Taiwan; [Moyes, Faye; Dornelas, Maria; Magurran, Anne E.] Univ St Andrews, Sch Biol, Scottish Oceans Inst, Ctr Biol Divers, St Andrews, Scotland; [Chazdon, Robin L.] Univ Sunshine Coast, Trop Forests & People Res Ctr, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia; [Chazdon, Robin L.; Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT USA; [Magnago, Luiz Fernando S.] Univ Fed Bahia UFSB, Ctr Formacao Ciencias Agroflorestais, Ilheus, Brazil; [Zeleny, David] Natl Taiwan Univ, Inst Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Taipei, Taiwan; [Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Colorado, Museum Nat Hist, Boulder, CO USA; [Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Ecol, Goiania, Brazil; [Chao, Anne] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu, Taiwan								3							Ecology	WOS:001077401200001		
J	Iwu, Chidozie Declan; Nontongana, Nolonwabo; Iwu-Jaja, Chinwe Juliana; Anyanwu, Brilliance Onyinyechi; du Plessis, Erika; Korsten, Lise; Okoh, Anthony Ifeanyin								Spatial diarrheal disease risks and antibiogram diversity of diarrheagenic <i>Escherichia coli</i> in selected access points of the Buffalo River, South Africa								PLOS ONE				18	8					e0288809	10.1371/journal.pone.0288809			AUG 24 2023	2023	Freshwater sources, often used for domestic and agricultural purposes in low- and middle-income countries are repositories of clinically significant bacterial pathogens. These pathogens are usually diversified in their antibiogram profiles posing public health threats. This study evaluated the spatial diarrhoeal disease risk and antibiogram diversity of diarrheagenic Escherichia coli (DEC) in four access points of the Buffalo River, Eastern Cape Province, South Africa using standard epidemiological, culture, and molecular methods. The diarrhoeal disease risk was characterised using the Monte Carlo simulation, while the antibiogram diversity was assessed using the species observed Whittaker's single alpha-diversity modelling. E. coli mean count was highest in King William's Town dam [16.0 x 10(2) CFU/100ml (SD: 100.0, 95% CI: 13.5 x 10(2) to 18.5 x 10(2))]. Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (stx1/stx2) was the most prevalent DEC pathotype across the study sites. A high diarrhoeal disease risk of 25.0 x10(-2) exceeding the World Health Organization's standard was recorded across the study sites. The average single and multiple antimicrobial resistance indices of the DEC to test antimicrobials were highest in the Eluxolzweni dam [0.52 (SD: 0.25, 95% CI: 0.37 to 0.67)] and King William's Town dam [0.42 (SD: 0.25, 95% CI: 0.27 to 0.57)] respectively. The prevalent antibiotic resistance genes detected were tetA, bla(FOX) and bla(MOX) plasmid-mediated AmpC, bla(TEM) and bla(SHV) extended-spectrum beta-lactamases, which co-occurred across the study sites on network analysis. The phenotypic and genotypic resistance characteristics of the DEC in Maden dam (r = 0.93, p< 0.00), Rooikrantz dam (r = 0.91, p< 0.00), King William's Town dam (r = 0.83, p = 0.0), and Eluxolzweni dam (r = 0.91, p< 0.00) were strongly correlated. At least, three phylogenetic clades of the DEC with initial steep descent alpha-diversity curves for most of the test antimicrobials were observed across the study sites, indicating high diversity. The occurrence of diversified multi drug resistant DEC with diarrhoeal disease risks in the Buffalo River substantiates the role surface water bodies play in the dissemination of drug-resistant bacterial pathogens with public health implications.		[Iwu, Chidozie Declan; Nontongana, Nolonwabo; Okoh, Anthony Ifeanyin] Univ Ft Hare, SAMRC Microbial Water Qual Monitoring Ctr, Alice, South Africa; [Iwu, Chidozie Declan; Nontongana, Nolonwabo; Okoh, Anthony Ifeanyin] Univ Ft Hare, Appl & Environm Microbiol Res Grp AEMREG, Alice, South Africa; [Iwu-Jaja, Chinwe Juliana] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Global Hlth, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Anyanwu, Brilliance Onyinyechi] Univ Port Harcourt, Ctr Occupat Hlth Safety & Environm, Port Harcourt, Rivers, Nigeria; [du Plessis, Erika; Korsten, Lise] Univ Pretoria, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, Hatfield, South Africa; [du Plessis, Erika; Korsten, Lise] Natl Res Fdn, Ctr Excellence Food Secur, Dept Sci & Technol, Pretoria, South Africa; [Iwu, Chidozie Declan] Univ Ft Hare, SAMRC Microbial Water Qual Monitoring Ctr, Alice, South Africa; [Iwu, Chidozie Declan] Univ Ft Hare, Appl & Environm Microbiol Res Grp AEMREG, Alice, South Africa								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001067701100035		
J	Shiroda, Megan; Fleming, Michael P.; Haudek, Kevin C.								Ecological diversity methods improve quantitative examination of student language in short constructed responses in STEM								FRONTIERS IN EDUCATION				8						989836	10.3389/feduc.2023.989836			FEB 2 2023	2023	We novelly applied established ecology methods to quantify and compare language diversity within a corpus of short written student texts. Constructed responses (CRs) are a common form of assessment but are difficult to evaluate using traditional methods of lexical diversity due to text length restrictions. Herein, we examined the utility of ecological diversity measures and ordination techniques to quantify differences in short texts by applying these methods in parallel to traditional text analysis methods to a corpus of previously studied college student CRs. The CRs were collected at two time points (Timing), from three types of higher-ed institutions (Type), and across three levels of student understanding (Thinking). Using previous work, we were able to predict that we would observe the most difference based on Thinking, then Timing and did not expect differences based on Type allowing us to test the utility of these methods for categorical examination of the corpus. We found that the ecological diversity metrics that compare CRs to each other (Whittaker's beta, species turnover, and Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity) were informative and correlated well with our predicted differences among categories and other text analysis methods. Other ecological measures, including Shannon's and Simpson's diversity, measure the diversity of language within a single CR. Additionally, ordination provided meaningful visual representations of the corpus by reducing complex word frequency matrices to two-dimensional graphs. Using the ordination graphs, we were able to observe patterns in the CR corpus that further supported our predictions for the data set. This work establishes novel approaches to measuring language diversity within short texts that can be used to examine differences in student language and possible associations with categorical data.		[Shiroda, Megan; Haudek, Kevin C.] Michigan State Univ, CREATE STEM Inst, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Fleming, Michael P.] Calif State Univ Stanislaus, Dept Biol Sci, One Univ Circle, Turlock, CA USA; [Haudek, Kevin C.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol, E Lansing, MI USA; [Shiroda, Megan] Michigan State Univ, CREATE STEM Inst, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA								1							Education & Educational Research	WOS:000935305800001		
J	Whittaker, Robert H.; Damschen, Ellen I.; Harrison, Susan								Plant community data collected by Robert H. Whittaker in the Siskiyou Mountains, Oregon and California, USA								ECOLOGY				103	9					e3764	10.1002/ecy.3764			SEP 2022	2022	In 1949-1951, ecologist Robert H. Whittaker sampled plant community composition at 470 sites in the Siskiyou Mountains (Oregon and California; also known as Klamath or Klamath-Siskiyou Mountains). His primary goal was to develop methods to quantify plant community variation across environmental gradients, following on his seminal work challenging communities as discrete entities. He selected the Siskiyous because of their diverse and endemic-rich flora, which he attributed to geological complexity and an ancient stable climate. He chose sites to span gradients of topography, elevation, geologic substrate, and distance from the coast. He used the frequencies of indicator species in his data to assign sampling locations to positions on the topographic gradient, nested within the elevational and substrate gradients. He originated in this study the concept of diversity partitioning, in which gamma diversity (species richness of a community) equals alpha diversity (species richness in homogeneous sites) times beta diversity (species turnover among sites along gradients). Diversity partitioning subsequently became highly influential and new developments on it continue. Whittaker published his Siskiyou work covering paleohistory, biogeography, floristics, vegetation, gradient analysis, and diversity partitioning in Ecological Monographs in 1960. Discussed in 2 pages of his 60-page monograph, diversity partitioning accounts for >95% of its current >4300 citations. In 2006, we retrieved Whittaker's Siskiyou data in hard copy from the Cornell University archives and entered them in a database. We used these data for multiple published analyses, including some based on (re)sampling the approximate locations of a subset of his sites. Because of the continued interest in diversity partitioning and in historic data sets, here we present his data, including 359 sampling locations and their descriptors and, for each sample, a list of species with their estimated percent cover (herbs and shrubs) and numbers by diameter at breast height (DBH) category (trees). Site descriptors include the approximate location (road, trail, or stream), elevation, topographic aspect, geologic substrate (serpentine, gabbro, or diorite), and dominant woody vegetation of each location. For 111 sites, including the small number chosen to represent the distance-to-coast gradient, we could not locate his data. There are no copyright restrictions and users of these data should cite this data paper in any publications that result from its use. The authors are available for consultations about and collaborations involving the data.		[Whittaker, Robert H.] Cornell Univ, Ithaca, NY USA; [Damschen, Ellen I.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Integrat Biol, Madison, WI USA; [Harrison, Susan] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Harrison, Susan] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Davis, CA 95616 USA								3							Ecology	WOS:000820575500001		
J	Tatsumi, Shinichi; Iritani, Ryosuke; Cadotte, Marc W.								Partitioning the temporal changes in abundance-based beta diversity into loss and gain components								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				13	9			2042	2048		10.1111/2041-210X.13921			SEP 2022	2022	Ecologists have long recognized that the losses and gains in local species abundances can either decrease or increase spatial beta diversity, phenomena often referred to as biotic homogenization and differentiation, respectively. However, quantifying such dynamic impacts of species abundances on beta diversity has remained a methodological challenge. Here, we develop a numerical method to additively partition the temporal changes in beta diversity into distinct components that reflect the losses and gains in local species abundances. Our method is based on Ruzicka and Bray-Curtis indices and the normalized abundance-based Whittaker's beta diversity. The temporal changes in these measures are partitioned into components that represent biotic homogenization and differentiation driven by abundance losses and gains at both species and community levels. Application of the method to a Swedish fish community dataset revealed decreases in beta diversity between 1990 and 2018. The homogenization of fish communities was explained by gains, but not losses, in species abundances across sites. Species-level partitioning further showed that the homogenization was largely caused by the increased population sizes of a particular species in sites where it was already present. The results highlight that our partitioning method effectively identifies local population and community processes embedded in regional biodiversity patterns. We believe that explicit analyses of the losses and gains in species abundances should bring deeper insights into the dynamics of beta diversity.		[Tatsumi, Shinichi; Cadotte, Marc W.] Univ Toronto Scarborough, Dept Biol Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Hokkaido Res Ctr, Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Iritani, Ryosuke] RIKEN Interdisciplinary Theoret & Math Sci iTHEMS, Saitama, Japan; [Cadotte, Marc W.] Univ Toronto, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Univ Toronto Scarborough, Dept Biol Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Hokkaido Res Ctr, Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								5							Ecology	WOS:000819731000001		
J	Mukherjee, Arkajyoti; Pal, Sudin; Adhikari, Shuvadip; Mukhopadhyay, Subhra Kumar								Physical Habitat Attributes Influence Diversity and Turnover of Waterbirds Wintering at Wetlands on Central Asian and East Asian-Australasian Flyways in Eastern India								WETLANDS				42	5					50	10.1007/s13157-022-01559-1			JUN 2022	2022	We assessed waterbirds richness and abundance in 13 selected wetlands with varied physiographic features and climatic heterogeneity, situated along the Central Asian Flyway (CAF) and East Asian-Australasian Flyway (EAAF), West Bengal, India. We aimed to test the prediction that the features of physical habitats (area, mean depth, shore length) are important determinants of migratory waterbird richness and abundance. Three consecutive surveys were conducted at each of the wetlands in the mid-wintering season. 117 species of waterbirds were found in the study areas which belong to 21 families. Wetlands on river floodplains (like Gajoldoba and Purbasthali) had greater species richness. Significance correlations between different physical features and the total birds, number of species and different diversity indices were noted. The sites with larger differences in the characters of the physical habitats, shown Whittaker's index of beta-diversity (beta w) highest viz. between Gajoldoba and Rasik Beel and also between Gajoldoba and Santragachi jheel. The canonical correspondence analysis plot depicted that abundance of waders, dabblers and divers were under the influence of shore length, area and depth respectively while the water-associated birds were under the influence of these three factors. Furthermore, waterbirds were excellent indicators of wetland health and the present study recorded their abundance and richness at the important wintering sites along the length and breadth of the state of West Bengal. This study would help in formulating future strategies for the conservation of waterbirds migrating along with CAF and EAAF.		[Mukherjee, Arkajyoti] Jadavpur Univ, Dept Chem Engn, Kolkata, W Bengal, India; [Mukherjee, Arkajyoti; Pal, Sudin; Adhikari, Shuvadip; Mukhopadhyay, Subhra Kumar] Govt Coll Engn & Leather Technol, Ecotoxicol & Environm Technol Project Lab, Kolkata, W Bengal, India; [Pal, Sudin] Govt Coll Engn & Leather Technol, Ecotoxicol & Environm Technol Project Lab, Kolkata, W Bengal, India								2							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000809026500002		
J	Ikram, Sana F.; Uniyal, Vaishnavi; Kumar, Dhananjay								Changes in species composition of cyanobacterial and microalgal communities along a temperature gradient in Tapovan Hot Spring, Garhwal Himalaya, Uttarakhand, India								AQUATIC ECOLOGY				56	3			573	584		10.1007/s10452-021-09921-x			SEP 2022	2022	To investigate how the water temperature influences diversity and distribution pattern of cyanobacteria and microalgae in a thermal spring, algal samples were collected from Tapovan Hot Spring of Garhwal Himalaya, Uttarakhand, India, along the gradient of 52-30 degrees C. A total of 71 algal species belonging to different algal groups like Cyanophyta (34), Bacillariophyta (31) and Chlorophyta (6) were identified from the collected samples. Among cyanophytes, five species were heterocystous, while others belonged either to non-heterocystous filamentous (20) or to unicellular forms (9). The species richness decreases as temperature increases towards the source point of the spring (i.e. from subsite S-5 to S-1). However, Shannon's measured diversity varied little across the subsites except witnessing a sudden drop at S-2. Whittaker's components of diversity, such as beta and gamma diversity, successfully reflected the major changes in the species composition of cyanobacterial and microalgal communities residing in different thermal subsites. Some green algae and diatoms were found thriving well at elevated temperatures (> 38 degrees C). These species need to be studied further for their under-operating cellular mechanisms and encompassing robust biomolecules that might be proven useful in diverse biotechnological processes.		[Ikram, Sana F.; Uniyal, Vaishnavi; Kumar, Dhananjay] HNB Garhwal Univ, Sch Life Sci, Dept Bot & Microbiol, Lab Algal Biotechnol, Srinagar 246174, Garhwal, India; [Kumar, Dhananjay] HNB Garhwal Univ, Sch Life Sci, Dept Bot & Microbiol, Lab Algal Biotechnol, Srinagar 246174, Garhwal, India								2							Ecology; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000722095100001		
J	Baturina, M. A.; Fefilova, E. B.								Estimating the Biodiversity Level of the Pechora River Delta Freshwater Ecosystems by the Structure of Bottom Communities of Cladocera, Copepoda, and Oligochaeta								INLAND WATER BIOLOGY				14	6			709	721		10.1134/S199508292106002X			NOV 2021	2021	This study presents an analysis of the species richness and diversity of microcrustaceans (Cladocera, Cyclopoida, and Harpacticoida) and Oligochaeta from the zoobenthos of streams and waterbodies of the Pechora River delta, Korovinskaya Bay and the lakes of its islands, and an adjacent section of the continental Malozemelskaya tundra. We have identified 87 species and forms. It is shown that, due to the heterogeneity of habitats and environmental conditions, the delta is characterized by a specific composition of the fauna of these groups of invertebrates, as well as the specific structure of taxocenoses. According to the Shannon-Wiener (H-N), Pielou (E), Simpson (D-S), and Whittaker's (beta(w)) indexes, the highest diversity of the groups is recorded in the streams and waterbodies of the delta; the lowest is in the surveyed area of the Malozemelskaya tundra. Based on our analysis, it is concluded that benthic Cladocera, Cyclopoida, and Oligochaeta are the most effective biodiversity indicators in the Pechora basin in its lower course. This is demonstrated by the cross-taxon correlation data on the species richness of these groups per sample.		[Baturina, M. A.; Fefilova, E. B.] Russian Acad Sci, Komi Sci Ctr, Inst Biol, Ural Branch, Syktyvkar, Russia; [Baturina, M. A.] Russian Acad Sci, Komi Sci Ctr, Inst Biol, Ural Branch, Syktyvkar, Russia								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000729230400009		
J	Engel, Thore; Blowes, Shane A.; McGlinn, Daniel J.; May, Felix; Gotelli, Nicholas J.; McGill, Brian J.; Chase, Jonathan M.								Using coverage-based rarefaction to infer non-random species distributions								ECOSPHERE				12	9					e03745	10.1002/ecs2.3745			SEP 2021	2021	Understanding how species are non-randomly distributed in space and how the resulting spatial structure responds to ecological, biogeographic, and anthropogenic drivers is a critical piece of the biodiversity puzzle. However, most metrics that quantify the spatial structure of diversity (i.e., community differentiation), such as Whittaker's beta-diversity, depend on sampling effort and are influenced by species pool size, species abundance distributions, and numbers of individuals. Null models are useful for identifying the degree of differentiation among communities due to spatial structuring relative to that expected from sampling effects, but do not accommodate the influence of sample completeness (i.e., the proportion of the species pool in a given sample). Here, we develop an approach that makes use of individual- and coverage-based rarefaction and extrapolation, to derive a metric, beta(C), which captures changes in intraspecific aggregation independently of changes in the species pool size. We illustrate the metric using spatially explicit simulations and two case studies: (1) a re-analysis of the "Gentry" plot data set consisting of small forest plots spanning a latitudinal gradient from North to South America and (2) comparing a large plot in high diversity tropical forests of Barro Colorado Island, Panama, with a plot in a lower diversity temperate forest in Harvard Forest, Massachusetts, USA. We find no evidence for systematic changes in spatial structure with latitude in these data sets. As it is rooted in biodiversity sampling theory and explicitly controls for sample completeness, our approach represents an important advance over existing null models for spatial aggregation. Potential applications range from better descriptors of biogeographic diversity patterns to the consolidation of local and regional diversity trends in the current biodiversity crisis.		[Engel, Thore; Blowes, Shane A.; Chase, Jonathan M.] Halle Jena Leipzig, German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Engel, Thore; Blowes, Shane A.; Chase, Jonathan M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Comp Sci, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany; [McGlinn, Daniel J.] Coll Charleston, Dept Biol, Charleston, SC 29424 USA; [May, Felix] Free Univ Berlin, Inst Biol, D-14195 Berlin, Germany; [Gotelli, Nicholas J.] Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [McGill, Brian J.] Univ Maine, Sch Biol & Ecol, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [McGill, Brian J.] Univ Maine, Senator George J Mitchell Ctr Sustainabil Solut, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [Engel, Thore] Halle Jena Leipzig, German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Engel, Thore] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Comp Sci, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany								11							Ecology	WOS:000701322700027		
J	Dalkiran, Nurhayat; Kulkoyluoglu, Okan; Dere, Sukran; Karacaoglu, Didem; Akay, Enis; Yavuzatmaca, Mehmet; Akdemir, Derya; Celen, Ebru								Effect of habitat type on algal species diversity and distribution at high altitudes								ECOHYDROLOGY & HYDROBIOLOGY				21	1			189	199		10.1016/j.ecohyd.2020.05.003			JAN 2021	2021	To investigate how habitat type influences species diversity and distribution of algae, 115 sampling sites across eight different habitats (stream, spring, lake, pool, wetland, ditch, trough, hot-spring) were randomly sampled from Agri province, Turkey. A total of 392 algal taxa (gamma diversity) were identified, of which 212 taxa (54.08%) belonged to Bacillariophyta while the rest (180 taxa) belonged to seven other groups (Chlorophyta, Charophyta, Euglenophyta, Cyanobacteria, Miozoa, Ochrophyta, and Cryptophyta). 150 taxa were encountered only once. The highest alpha diversity was found in ditches (H' =4.57, 235 taxa) followed by streams (H' = 4.40, 238 taxa), and the lowest diversity was recovered in troughs (H' = 2.62, 42 taxa). Relatively high Whittaker's beta diversity (Bw = 19) indicated a low level of similarity among sampling sites suggesting that no common taxonomic group was solely effective enough to change dominancy level of any species among the habitats. The first two axes of Canonical Correspondence Analysis accounted for 58.1 % of the total variance in the occurrence of 152 algal taxa (all taxa recovered from more than three samples) and described gradients across four environmental variables (habitat type, pH, elevation and water temperature). Ditches significantly contribution to alpha and gamma diversity in the province although they have relatively small surface area and shallow water compared to other habitat types. High alpha diversity in ditches may be related to the positive effect of geographic and climatic factors in mountainous area. Future possibilities are discussed. (C) 2021 European Regional Centre for Ecohydrology of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Dalkiran, Nurhayat; Dere, Sukran; Karacaoglu, Didem; Akay, Enis] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Biol, Bursa, Turkey; [Kulkoyluoglu, Okan; Yavuzatmaca, Mehmet; Celen, Ebru] Abant Izzet Baysal Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Biol, Bolu, Turkey; [Akdemir, Derya] Cologne Univ, Fac Math & Nat Sci, Inst Geol & Mineral, D-50674 Cologne, Germany; [Dalkiran, Nurhayat] Bursa Uludag Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Biol, Bursa, Turkey								1							Ecology; Water Resources	WOS:000627421200017		
J	Tocco, Claudia; Midgley, J. M.; Villet, Martin H.								Intermediate disturbance promotes diversity and the conservation of dung beetles (Scarabaeoidea: Scarabaeidae and Aphodiidae) in the Eastern Cape, South Africa								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				49				45	56		10.1016/j.baae.2020.10.005			DEC 2020	2020	Environmental fluctuations, such as changes in climate, agricultural management and anthropogenic land-use patterns can affect the diversity of organisms inhabiting an area. Losses of biodiversity alter ecosystems processes, eroding their capacity to deliver ecosystem services. Dung beetles are critical ecosystem service providers, making them an ideal ecological indicator to explore the effects of land-use change on biodiversity. Dung beetles were sampled across three land-use types, in the summers of 2015 and 2016 in the Eastern Cape province, South Africa. Game ranching is regarded as a relatively low-intensity land use type. It was compared with cattle ranching (medium intensity) and dairy farming (high intensity) to examine their effect on dung beetle assemblage metrics (abundance, species richness and true Shannon diversity index), guild diversity (as nesting guilds) and spatial turnover. The intermediate grazing intensity of cattle ranching supported a higher abundance and diversity of both whole dung beetle assemblage and the nesting guilds, followed by the game ranches and then dairy farms. Differences between the sampling years were dependent on the beetle nesting guild, and largely correlated with rainfall and temperature. Cattle and game ranches shared a higher number of species than either shared with dairy farms. Whittaker's Beta-diversity index showed the highest species turnover between game ranches and dairy farms. A mix of game and cattle ranching, minimising dairy farming or restricting it to already ecological degraded sites, appears the best alternative for maintenance of dung beetle diversity and their ecosystem services. The year-to-year trends of the data were in general consistent, confirming that dung beetles are reliable ecological indicators; but also suggest that climate change that affects rainfall will result in the reduction of the abundance and diversity of this key ecological group. (C) 2020 Gesellschaft fur Okologie. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Tocco, Claudia; Midgley, J. M.; Villet, Martin H.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Zool & Entomol, ZA-6140 Makhanda, South Africa; [Tocco, Claudia] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Tocco, Claudia] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa								6							Ecology	WOS:000598520400005		
J	Gumus, Seda Akkurt; Avci, Meral								Primary Conservation Area Selection with Biodiversity Indices: A Case Study on the Kargi and Karpuz River Valleys (Mediterranean Region-Turkey)								JOURNAL OF GEOGRAPHY-COGRAFYA DERGISI					41			147	164		10.26650/JGEOG2020-0056			2020	2020	Diversity components are explained with different concepts, approaches, and methods. Biodiversity conservation in specific areas of rich plant species diversity and endemism rate in Turkey is significant enough to be managed sustainably. Identifying biodiversity at different scales is one of the most critical steps before implementing protection measures. In the Mediterranean region, plant species are in danger due to various factors: expansion of urban areas, rapid population growth, and fire. Against these threats, it will be a useful initiative to focus on areas with diverse species and to give priority to conservation in these regions. In this study, plant species diversity was calculated with the alpha (alpha) and beta (beta) biodiversity indices, using data collected from fieldwork in the two river valleys, Kargi and Karpuz. The Shannon-Wiener index (alpha H) was used for alpha species diversity, and Whittaker's index (beta w) was preferred for the beta diversity index. As a result, the areas with the least alpha diversity in the Karpuz River valley are the source and the upper course of the river and the areas with the highest diversity are the lower and middle courses. Beta diversity is high in the upper course and less in the lower and middle courses where anthropogenic activities are dominant. In contrast, in the Kargi River valley, alpha and beta diversity is low in the middle part and more in the upper and lower courses. For all plant species diversity of the two valleys, Whittaker's gamma diversity index (gamma) was used and the Kargi River valley was identified as the priority area for conservation.		[Gumus, Seda Akkurt] Manisa Celal Bayar Univ, Cog Bilgi Sistemleri Programi, Manisa, Turkey; [Avci, Meral] Istanbul Univ, Cografya Bolumu, Istanbul, Turkey; [Gumus, Seda Akkurt] Manisa Celal Bayar Univ, Cog Bilgi Sistemleri Programi, Manisa, Turkey								0							Geography	WOS:000604925900010		
J	Prieto-Torres, David A.; Lira-Noriega, Andres; Navarro-Siguenza, Adolfo G.								Climate change promotes species loss and uneven modification of richness patterns in the avifauna associated to Neotropical seasonally dry forests								PERSPECTIVES IN ECOLOGY AND CONSERVATION				18	1			19	30		10.1016/j.pecon.2020.01.002			JAN-MAR 2020	2020	We assessed the effects of global climate change as a driver of spatio-temporal biodiversity patterns in bird assemblages associated to Neotropical seasonally dry forests (NSDF). For this, we estimated the geographic distribution of 719 bird species under current and future climate (2050 and 2070) projections considering two dispersal ability assumptions (contiguous dispersal vs. no dispersal). Then, using Sorensen-based multiple-site dissimilarity and range-diversity plots analyses, we assessed the potential changes of range size and covariance in species composition, as well as in alpha and beta diversities across NSDF and within the current Protected Areas (PAs). Over 77% of species tended to reduce their potential distributional ranges for years 2050 and 2070 (regardless climate and dispersal scenarios), including several species extirpations from the NSDF. In fact, considering the contiguous dispersion, we observed that, on average, only similar to 7% of species will be favored (increasing >10% their current distributional areas) by new climate conditions. We estimated a general decrease in local species richness and increase in Whittaker's beta diversity across NSDF and PAs under future scenarios, which is indicative of biotic heterogeneity. This scenario suggests that NSDF's avian assemblages could be prone to an uneven structural reorganization (likely decreasing the taxonomic similarity between sites) as a consequence of climate change. Such change in biodiversity patterns imply a threat for conservation of birds in this highly diverse and fragile ecosystem; however, the spatio-temporal patterns for the NSDF avifauna identified herein can be useful to guide new conservation efforts. (C) 2020 Associacao Brasileira de Ciencia Ecologica e Conservacao. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda.		[Prieto-Torres, David A.; Navarro-Siguenza, Adolfo G.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Evolut, Museo Zool, Apartado Postal 70-399, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Lira-Noriega, Andres] Inst Ecol AC, Red Estudios Mol Avanzados, Lab Biogeog, Carretera Antigua Coatepec 351, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico; [Prieto-Torres, David A.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Evolut, Museo Zool, Apartado Postal 70-399, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								32							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000524750600003		
J	Soberon, Jorge								A Grinnellian Niche Perspective on Species-Area Relationships								AMERICAN NATURALIST				194	6			760	775		10.1086/705898			DEC 2019	2019	In this work, Grinnellian niche theory (a body of theory about geographic distributions of species in terms of noninteracting niche variables) is used to demonstrate that species-area relationships emerge with both size of environmental space and size of geographic area. As environmental space increases, more species' fundamental niches are included, thus increasing the number of species capable of living in the corresponding region. This idea is made operational by proposing a size measure for multidimensional environmental space and approximating fundamental niches with minimum volume ellipsoids. This framework allows estimating a presence-absence matrix based on the distribution of fundamental niches in environmental space, from which many biodiversity measures can be calculated, such as beta diversity. I establish that Whittaker's equation for beta diversity is equivalent to MacArthur's formula relating species numbers and niche breadth; this latter equation provides a mechanism for the species-niche space relationship. I illustrate the theoretical results via exploration of niches of the terrestrial mammals of North America (north of Panama). Each world region has a unique structure of its environmental space, and the position of fundamental niches in niche space is different for different clades; therefore, species-area relationships depend on the clades involved and the region of focus, mostly as a function of MacArthur's niche beta diversity. Analyzing species-area relationships from the perspective of niche position in environmental space is novel, shifting emphasis from demographic processes to historical, geographic, and climatic factors; moreover, the Grinnellian approach is based on available data and is computationally feasible.		[Soberon, Jorge] Univ Kansas, Biodivers Inst, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Soberon, Jorge] Univ Kansas, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Soberon, Jorge] Univ Kansas, Biodivers Inst, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; [Soberon, Jorge] Univ Kansas, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								10							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000501897400005		
J	Choi, Sei-Woong; Thein, Pyae Pyae								Distribution breadth and species turnover of night-flying beetles and moths on different mainland and island mountains								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				33	1			237	247		10.1007/s11284-017-1555-z			JAN 2018	2018	Distribution breadth and species turnover rates of two night-flying insect groups (moths and beetles) were analyzed on two mountains in warm temperate forests of South Korea, Mt. Hallasan (range 278-1109 m) on Jejudo island (HL) and Mt. Jirisan (range 319-1330 m) in southern Korea (JR). The goals of the study were to compare the spatial changes in the two insect groups on both mountains and to identify ecological factors influencing the diversity pattern. Insects were collected from 16 sites in two mountains from May to October of 2013 and 2014 using a UV light trap. Moths were generally more diverse on JR than on HL, but similarity among sites was higher on JR than on HL. However, beetles were not different between the two mountains in diversity and similarity of assemblages among sites. The distributional range of both moths and beetles were significantly narrower on HL than JR, while the distributional range curves peaked at mid-elevations, being positively skewed at HL and negatively skewed at JR. Whittaker's species turnover rates of moths and beetles were higher for HL than JR. On both mountains, latitude was a significant variable influencing moth species richness and abundance, while soil fertility and plant species richness were significant variables influencing beetle abundance. Geographic distance and elevation played a significant role in segregating insect assemblages on both mountains, except for moths in JR. The pattern and mechanism of spatial changes in night-flying insect assemblages on both mountains varied depending on insect group and location.		[Choi, Sei-Woong; Thein, Pyae Pyae] Mokpo Natl Univ, Dept Environm Educ, Mokpo 58554, Jeonnam, South Korea; [Choi, Sei-Woong] Mokpo Natl Univ, Dept Environm Educ, Mokpo 58554, Jeonnam, South Korea								2							Ecology	WOS:000422907900021		
J	Wang, Zheng; Xu, Guangjian; Xu, Henglong								Determining β-diversity of protozoa for bioassessment in coastal ecosystems using community-based dispersions								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				72				47	52		10.1016/j.ecolind.2016.08.001			JAN 2017	2017	The beta-diversity of protozoan communities is a useful bioindicator of environmental heterogeneity and water quality status in global change research. As a broad (beta-diversity measure, multivariate dispersions are subject to influence from the relative weight placed on changes in composition versus abundance. To identify a feasible numeral resolution for determining beta-diversity of protozoa using community based dispersions, a dataset of the protozoan communities was studied. Results showed that although species composition was the primary contributor to the multivariate dispersions, the community-based dispersions showed a significant linear relationship to the Whittaker's (beta-diversity index. However, the data transformations on species-abundance data represented clear influences on outputs of community based dispersion measures: heavy (e.g., fourth root or log) transforms were more feasible than slight ones. Based on the results, we suggest that the community-based multivariate dispersions with heavy data transforms may be used to summarize the (beta-diversity of protozoan communities for bioassessment in coastal ecosystems. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wang, Zheng; Xu, Guangjian; Xu, Henglong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Xu, Henglong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000398426200005		
J	Kumar, Pavan; Pandey, Prem Chandra; Kumar, Vipin; Singh, Binay Kumar; Tomar, Vandana; Rani, Meenu								Efficient Recognition of Forest Species Biodiversity by Inventory-Based Geospatial Approach Using LISS IV Sensor								IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL				15	3			1884	1891		10.1109/JSEN.2014.2368394			MAR 2015	2015	Tropical forest is one of the great biodiversity repositories of the world ecosystem. Biodiversity is depleting very fast due to conversion of forest region into agricultural or other land use. Here comes the role of biodiversity assessment and evaluation of spatial data of species to prioritize the conservation purposes. Traditionally, ground-based plots were used to assess different biodiversity. Later on, remote sensing approaches were also incorporated along with field-based studies to quantify the results accurately. Assessment of biodiversity constitutes estimation of various indices that were obtained using ground-based plot or survey. With the advancement of the remote sensing technology, spatial information about tree species was collected using field sample and satellite data and field sample plots within the Sariska Tiger Reserve. Different diversity indices were calculated like alpha, beta, diversity, and others, i.e., Pilot's index (J), Shannon-Wiener index (SR), Margalef index (E-w), and Whittaker's index (H'). The multistage statistical techniques, which integrate high spatial resolution and spectral characteristics of satellite data (LISS IV), will help in providing precise information about tree species. Regression analysis provides better results to identify forest species among different bands. A positive correlation has been found in the infrared band even negative correlation has been found in other bands. This paper incorporates field-based surveys along with remote sensing technologies using a regression model (r(2) = 0.636) to estimate and recognize different species diversity in Sariska Tiger Reserve.		[Kumar, Pavan] Banasthali Vidyapith, Dept Remote Sensing, Tonk 302001, India; [Pandey, Prem Chandra] Univ Leicester, Dept Geog, Ctr Landscape & Climate Res, Leicester LE1 7RH, Leics, England; [Kumar, Vipin] Banasthali Vidyapith, Dept Geog, Tonk 302001, India; [Singh, Binay Kumar] Birla Inst Technol, Extens Ctr, Jaipur 302017, Rajasthan, India; [Tomar, Vandana] Haryana Inst Publ Adm, Gurgaon 122008, India; [Rani, Meenu] Indian Inst Farming Syst Res, Meerut 250110, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kumar, Pavan] Banasthali Vidyapith, Dept Remote Sensing, Tonk 302001, India								14							Engineering, Electrical & Electronic; Instruments & Instrumentation; Physics, Applied	WOS:000348200400001		
J	Ulrich, Werner; Soliveres, Santiago; Maestre, Fernando T.; Gotelli, Nicholas J.; Quero, Jose L.; Delgado-Baquerizo, Manuel; Bowker, Matthew A.; Eldridge, David J.; Ochoa, Victoria; Gozalo, Beatriz; Valencia, Enrique; Berdugo, Miguel; Escolar, Cristina; Garcia-Gomez, Miguel; Escudero, Adrian; Prina, Anibal; Alfonso, Graciela; Arredondo, Tulio; Bran, Donaldo; Cabrera, Omar; Cea, Alex P.; Chaieb, Mohamed; Contreras, Jorge; Derak, Mchich; Espinosa, Carlos I.; Florentino, Adriana; Gaitan, Juan; Garcia Muro, Victoria; Ghiloufi, Wahida; Gomez-Gonzalez, Susana; Gutierrez, Julio R.; Hernandez, Rosa M.; Huber-Sannwald, Elisabeth; Jankju, Mohammad; Mau, Rebecca L.; Hughes, Frederic Mendes; Miriti, Maria; Monerris, Jorge; Muchane, Muchai; Naseri, Kamal; Pucheta, Eduardo; Ramirez-Collantes, David A.; Raveh, Eran; Romao, Roberto L.; Torres-Diaz, Cristian; Val, James; Pablo Veiga, Jose; Wang, Deli; Yuan, Xia; Zaady, Eli								Climate and soil attributes determine plant species turnover in global drylands								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				41	12			2307	2319		10.1111/jbi.12377			DEC 2014	2014	AimGeographical, climatic and soil factors are major drivers of plant beta diversity, but their importance for dryland plant communities is poorly known. The aim of this study was to: (1) characterize patterns of beta diversity in global drylands; (2) detect common environmental drivers of beta diversity; and (3) test for thresholds in environmental conditions driving potential shifts in plant species composition. LocationGlobal. MethodsBeta diversity was quantified in 224 dryland plant communities from 22 geographical regions on all continents except Antarctica using four complementary measures: the percentage of singletons (species occurring at only one site); Whittaker's beta diversity, (W); a directional beta diversity metric based on the correlation in species occurrences among spatially contiguous sites, (R-2); and a multivariate abundance-based metric, (MV). We used linear modelling to quantify the relationships between these metrics of beta diversity and geographical, climatic and soil variables. ResultsSoil fertility and variability in temperature and rainfall, and to a lesser extent latitude, were the most important environmental predictors of beta diversity. Metrics related to species identity [percentage of singletons and (W)] were most sensitive to soil fertility, whereas those metrics related to environmental gradients and abundance [((R-2) and (MV)] were more associated with climate variability. Interactions among soil variables, climatic factors and plant cover were not important determinants of beta diversity. Sites receiving less than 178mm of annual rainfall differed sharply in species composition from more mesic sites (> 200mm). Main conclusionsSoil fertility and variability in temperature and rainfall are the most important environmental predictors of variation in plant beta diversity in global drylands. Our results suggest that those sites annually receiving c. 178mm of rainfall will be especially sensitive to future climate changes. These findings may help to define appropriate conservation strategies for mitigating effects of climate change on dryland vegetation.		[Ulrich, Werner] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ Torun, Chair Ecol & Biogeog, PL-87100 Torun, Poland; [Soliveres, Santiago; Maestre, Fernando T.; Quero, Jose L.; Delgado-Baquerizo, Manuel; Ochoa, Victoria; Gozalo, Beatriz; Valencia, Enrique; Berdugo, Miguel; Escolar, Cristina; Garcia-Gomez, Miguel; Escudero, Adrian] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Dept Biol & Geol, Area Biodiversidad & Conservac, Mostoles, Spain; [Gotelli, Nicholas J.] Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [Quero, Jose L.] Univ Cordoba, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn Agron & Montes, Dept Ingn Forestal, Cordoba, Spain; [Delgado-Baquerizo, Manuel] Univ Pablo de Olavide, Dept Sistemas Fis Quim & Nat, Seville, Spain; [Bowker, Matthew A.] No Arizona Univ, Sch Forestry, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Eldridge, David J.; Val, James] Univ New S Wales, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Garcia-Gomez, Miguel] Univ Politecn Madrid, Dept Ingn & Morfol Terreno, Madrid, Spain; [Prina, Anibal; Alfonso, Graciela] Univ Nacl La Pampa, Fac Agron, La Pampa, Argentina; [Arredondo, Tulio; Huber-Sannwald, Elisabeth] Inst Potosino Invest Cient & Tecnol, Div Ciencias Ambientales, San Luis Potosi, Mexico; [Bran, Donaldo; Gaitan, Juan] Inst Nacl Tecnol Agr, Estn Expt San Carlos Bariloche, San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina; [Cabrera, Omar; Espinosa, Carlos I.] Univ Tecn Particular Loja, Inst Ecol, Loja, Ecuador; [Cea, Alex P.; Gutierrez, Julio R.] Univ La Serena, Dept Biol, La Serena, Chile; [Chaieb, Mohamed; Ghiloufi, Wahida] Univ Sfax, UR Plant Biodivers & Ecosyst Arid Environm, Fac Sci, Sfax, Tunisia; [Contreras, Jorge] Univ Ctr Occidental Lizandro Alvarado, Dept Suelos, Barquisimeto, Estado Lara, Venezuela; [Derak, Mchich] Direct Reg Eaux & Forets & Lutte Desertificat Rif, Tetouan, Morocco; [Florentino, Adriana] Cent Univ Venezuela, Inst Edafol, Fac Agron, Caracas, Estado Aragua, Venezuela; [Garcia Muro, Victoria] CCT Mendoza, IANIGLA, Mendoza, Argentina; [Gomez-Gonzalez, Susana; Torres-Diaz, Cristian] Univ Bio Bio, Dept Ciencias Basicas, Lab Genom & Biodiversidad, Chillan, Chile; [Gomez-Gonzalez, Susana; Gutierrez, Julio R.; Torres-Diaz, Cristian] Ctr Estudios Avanzados Zonas Aridas, La Serena, Chile; [Gutierrez, Julio R.] Inst Ecol & Biodiversidad, Santiago, Chile; [Hernandez, Rosa M.] Univ Expt Simon Rodriguez, Ctr Agroecol Trop, Lab Biogeoquim, Caracas, Venezuela; [Jankju, Mohammad; Naseri, Kamal] Ferdowsi Univ Mashhad, Dept Range & Watershed Management, Mashhad, Iran; [Mau, Rebecca L.] No Arizona Univ, Ctr Ecosyst Sci & Soc, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Hughes, Frederic Mendes] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Dept Biol, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Miriti, Maria] Ohio State Univ, Dept Evolut Ecol & Organismal Biol, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Monerris, Jorge] Univ Quebec, Dept Sci Biol, Montreal, PQ H3C 3P8, Canada; [Muchane, Muchai] Natl Museums Kenya, Dept Zool, Nairobi, Kenya; [Pucheta, Eduardo] Univ Nacl San Juan, Fac Ciencias Exactas Fis & Nat, Dept Biol, San Juan, Argentina; [Ramirez-Collantes, David A.] Int Potato Ctr, Prod Syst & Environm Subprogram, Lima, Peru; [Raveh, Eran; Zaady, Eli] Agr Res Org, Gilat Res Ctr, Dept Nat Resources & Citriculture, IL-85280 Negev, Israel; [Romao, Roberto L.] Univ Estadual Feira de Santana, Dept Ciencias Biol, Feira De Santana, Brazil; [Pablo Veiga, Jose] Museo Nacl CCNN, Dept Ecol Evolut, Madrid, Spain; [Wang, Deli; Yuan, Xia] NE Normal Univ, Inst Grassland Sci, Key Lab Vegetat Ecol, Changchun, Peoples R China; [Ulrich, Werner] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ Torun, Chair Ecol & Biogeog, Lwowska 1, PL-87100 Torun, Poland								71							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000345328400010		
J	Hanis, Aiman J.; Abu Hassan, A.; Nurita, A. T.; Salmah, Che M. R.								Community structure of termites in a hill dipterocarp forest of Belum-Temengor Forest Complex, Malaysia: emergence of pest species								RAFFLES BULLETIN OF ZOOLOGY				62				3	11					2014	2014	Termites are the major decomposers of organic matter in tropical rainforests. The distribution of termite species in a hill dipterocarp forest and effect of forest clearance for ecotourism development on termite diversity were investigated at the Belum-Temengor Forest Complex (BTFC) of Perak, Malaysia. Standardised belt-transect protocol was used in this study, with some additional casual sampling of pest species. A total of 40 species of termites, comprising 19 genera from five subfamilies (Coptotermitinae, Rhinotermitinae, Macrotermitinae, Termitinae, and Nasutitermitinae) were identified. Nasutitermitinae was found to be the major subfamily of termites in BTFC. The natural forest areas within the BTFC recorded 32 species of termites, while the disturbed forest areas were only represented by 21 species of termites. Dissimilarity of species diversity between these two areas, calculated based on Whittaker's beta diversity, was valued at beta(W): 0.51. The wood feeders group (27 species) makes up about 67.5% of the overall termite fauna found. High number of representatives from this feeding group increases the risk of infestation on wooden man-made structures. Most of the wooden structures within the disturbed areas were found to be infested and damaged by termites. At least 12 species (30%) from the total termite found in BTFC were designated as pest species. Subfamily Macrotermitinae were represented by seven pest species making it the most important with Odontotermes sarawakensis and Ancistrotermes pakistanicus being the most common.		[Hanis, Aiman J.; Abu Hassan, A.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Entomol Res Lab, George Town 11800, Malaysia; [Nurita, A. T.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia; [Salmah, Che M. R.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Aquat Entomol Lab, George Town 11800, Malaysia; [Hanis, Aiman J.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Entomol Res Lab, George Town 11800, Malaysia								11							Zoology	WOS:000342864800002		
J	Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.								Species Composition, Distribution, and Diversity of Woody Species in a Tropical Dry Forest of India								JOURNAL OF SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY				33	8			729	756		10.1080/10549811.2014.925402			2014	2014	We investigated the composition of tropical dry forest woody species at adult, sapling, and seedling stages, in terms of plant diversity, distribution, and importance value index (IVI), and identified the dominant and ubiquitous species in the five study sites having variable edaphic properties. Species varied markedly in the composition and IVI at different sites. The semi-evergreen species, Shorea robusta, was dominant at the wettest site at all the three growth stages; at the driest site, highly deciduous species Lannea coromandelica was the dominant adult species and Nyctanthis arbortristis the dominant sapling and seedling species. Soil moisture content (SMC) altered the distribution of about 8% of the adult species. ANOVA indicated significant site-wise differences in the Shannon-Wiener index, Whittaker's evenness, Margalef's species richness, and beta-diversity for the woody species at all the three stages. The Shannon-Wiener index, Whittaker's evenness, Margalef's species richness, and beta-diversity were greater in seedlings as compared to adult and saplings of tree species. These variations in species composition and distribution are evidently on account of different levels of SMC as well as habitat heterogeneity as indicated by beta-diversity which was independent of SMC.		[Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Chaturvedi, R. K.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India								19							Forestry	WOS:000209679700001		
J	Karaus, Ute; Larsen, Stefano; Guillong, Helene; Tockner, Klement								The contribution of lateral aquatic habitats to insect diversity along river corridors in the Alps								LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY				28	9			1755	1767		10.1007/s10980-013-9918-5			NOV 2013	2013	River floodplains are among the most threatened ecosystems globally. Understanding the mechanisms that create and maintain biodiversity and ecosystem functioning of floodplains, is therefore a prerequisite for developing scientifically-sound management and conservation strategies. We quantified the spatial distribution of lateral aquatic habitats (i.e. tributaries, ponds, backwaters) and the associated insect assemblages (Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera) along three Alpine river corridors (Tagliamento, Thur, and Rhne). Our objective was to assess the relative contribution of lateral habitats to river corridor diversity, and to identify the scale that contributed the most to regional (Alpine scale) species diversity. The number of lateral habitats decreased by 72 % from the near-natural Tagliamento (101) to the Thur river (42) and the regulated Rhne river (28). More than 50 % of the total species richness along each river was restricted to lateral habitats, which also exhibited higher taxon turnover rates (Whittaker's beta diversity) than the associated main channel. Hierarchical diversity partitioning revealed that beta diversity among corridors was higher than expected, and accounted for 48 % of regional richness, partly reflecting biogeographical differences among catchments. However, diversity partitioning, excluding catchment-specific effects, showed that beta diversity among habitat types contributed significantly to regional richness (79 %). The present study is among the first to quantify the distribution and biodiversity of floodplain habitats along entire river continua. Our results demonstrated that biodiversity would be best preserved by protecting multiple catchments, and that lateral floodplain habitats contribute disproportionally to species richness at the river corridor and regional scale.		[Karaus, Ute] AquaPlus, CH-6300 Zurich, Switzerland; [Karaus, Ute] Eawag, CH-8600 Dubendorf, Switzerland; [Larsen, Stefano; Tockner, Klement] Leibniz Inst Freshwater Ecol & Inland Fishery, D-12587 Berlin, Germany; [Guillong, Helene] ETH, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland; [Tockner, Klement] Free Univ Berlin, Inst Biol, Berlin, Germany; [Larsen, Stefano] Leibniz Inst Freshwater Ecol & Inland Fishery, Mueggelseedamm 310, D-12587 Berlin, Germany								21							Ecology; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000326926400010		
J	Culmsee, Heike; Leuschner, Christoph								Consistent patterns of elevational change in tree taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity across Malesian mountain forests								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				40	10			1997	2010		10.1111/jbi.12138			OCT 2013	2013	AimIn order to investigate the relative importance of ecological (habitat specialization) and biogeographical (speciation, geographical dispersal limitation) processes as causes of non-random spatial distribution of tree species in the mountain forests of Malesia, we analysed the elevational change in the taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity of tree assemblages in different biogeographical subregions. LocationMalesia (Borneo, Java, Sulawesi and the Philippines). MethodsTree inventory data of 12 old-growth forests from a wide elevational range (650-3080m a.s.l.) were taxonomically harmonized and standardized (50 random draws of 245 individuals each per plot), and the phylogeny of 204 genera was resolved and scaled to its evolutionary origin. The taxonomic and phylogenetic diversities were calculated using effective generic measures, and the diversity patterns analysed by regression, ordination and classification. ResultsThe primary factor determining the diversity patterns of the tree assemblages was elevation, whereas the influence of region was surprisingly low. This results in common elevational patterns in taxonomic and phylogenetic community structure across western and central Malesia. The major clades of the contemporary mountain forest trees must therefore have evolved before the formation of the Malay Archipelago in its present form (sympatric speciation). Taxonomic richness and phylogenetic diversity exhibited opposite trends with elevation. Generic richness decreased linearly with elevation; the phylogenetic structure of high-elevation forests revealed overdispersion, indicating convergent trait evolution towards higher elevations, whereas the submontane and colline assemblages showed clustering with a considerable number of confamilials. The upper montane forests of Borneo and Sulawesi were characterized by the dominance of Southern Hemisphere conifers, which differentiated them from lower-elevation communities. Main conclusionsOur results indicate that ecological, evolutionary and biogeographical processes (environmental filtering, sympatry and long-distance dispersal) have shaped the contemporary community structure of Malesian mountain forests. Wallace's Line may represent a significant barrier between the lowland tree floras of Borneo and Sulawesi, but this is not true for those at higher elevations. The uniqueness of high-elevation forests in terms of their high phylogenetic diversity and of their unusual structure calls for a high priority in conservation programmes.		[Culmsee, Heike; Leuschner, Christoph] Univ Gottingen, Albrecht von Haller Inst Plant Sci, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany; [Culmsee, Heike] Univ Gottingen, Albrecht von Haller Inst Plant Sci, Untere Karspule 2, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany								68							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000325030900016		
J	Yu, Min; Sun, Osbert Jianxin								Effects of forest patch type and site on herb-layer vegetation in a temperate forest ecosystem								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				300				14	20		10.1016/j.foreco.2012.12.039			JUL 15 2013	2013	Development of strategies and schemes for adaptive forest management requires sound understanding on the controls and contributing factors of forest productivity and biological conservation. Understanding the factors determining the distribution of understory plants is important for biological conservation because the herb-layer vegetation represents the largest component of biodiversity in most forest ecosystems. We examined the effects of tree canopy and site on herb-layer vegetation in 40 plots representing three contrasting forest patch types, i.e. Pinus tabuliformis Carr (pine forest), Quercus liaotungensis Koidz (broadleaf forest), and P. tabuliformis-Q. liaotungensis mixture (mixed-wood forest), at elevations ranging from 1542 m to 1734 m in a temperate forest of North China. The importance of the overstory and other biotic and site factors in controlling understory species composition and diversity was quantitatively assessed by the method of constrained ordination (CCA). Analysis with multi-response permutation procedure (MRPP) reveals significant differences in species composition of the herb-layer among the three contrasting forest patch types; each forest patch type supports a distinct plant community in the herb-layer as assessed by composition and importance value of the representative species. Forward variable selection shows that litter mass, aspect, and canopy openness are most important in explaining species composition and diversity of the herb-layer. Both species richness and Shannon-Wiener index (H') increase as the aspect orients southward and the sampling plot moves higher on slope. To a lesser extent, increasing canopy openness is associated with slightly decreasing species diversity in the herb-layer. Mixed-wood forest is found to have highest species richness and lowest Whittaker's measure of inter-site variability in species composition (i.e. beta-diversity) in the herb-layer among the three forest patch types, highlighting the ecological significance of the mixed-wood forest in maintaining biodiversity and community stability in temperate forest ecosystems. The outcome of this study suggests that management practices should consider retaining the natural intermix of canopy patches for conservation of biodiversity in the herb-layer of forest ecosystems. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Sun, Osbert Jianxin] Beijing Forestry Univ, MOE Key Lab Silviculture & Conservat, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; Beijing Forestry Univ, Inst Forestry & Climate Change Res, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Sun, Osbert Jianxin] Beijing Forestry Univ, MOE Key Lab Silviculture & Conservat, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China								46							Forestry	WOS:000320425100003		
J	Qian, Hong; Chen, Shengbin; Mao, Lingfeng; Ouyang, Zhiyun								Drivers of -diversity along latitudinal gradients revisited								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				22	6			659	670		10.1111/geb.12020			JUN 2013	2013	Aim Ecologists have generally agreed that -diversity is driven at least in part by ecological processes and mechanisms of community assembly and is a key determinant of global patterns of species richness. This idea has been challenged by a recent study based on an individual-based null model approach, which aims to account for the species pool. The goal of the present study is twofold: (1) to analyse data sets from different parts of the world to determine whether there are significant latitude-diversity gradients after accounting for the species pool, and (2) to evaluate the validity of the null model. Location Global. Methods A total of 257 forest plots, each being 0.1 ha in size and having 10 0.01-ha subplots, were used. We conducted four sets of analyses. A modified version of Whittaker's -diversity index was used to quantify -diversity for each forest plot. A randomization procedure was used to determine expected -diversity. Results The number of individuals per species, which characterizes species abundance distribution, alone explains 56.884.2% of the variation in observed -diversity. Species pool (-diversity) explained only an additional 2.615.2% of the variation in observed -diversity. Latitude explains 18.6% of the variation in raw deviation in Gentry's global data set, and explains 11.011.6% of the variation in standardized deviation in the global and three regional analyses. Latitude explains 33.246.2% of the variation in the number of individuals per species. Main conclusions Species abundance distribution, rather than species pool size, plays a key role in driving latitude-diversity gradients for -diversity in local forest communities. The individual-based null model is not a valid null model for investigating -diversity gradients driven by mechanisms of local community assembly because the null model incorporates species abundance distributions, which are driven by mechanisms of local community assembly and in turn generate -diversity gradients.		[Qian, Hong] Illinois State Museum, Res & Collect Ctr, Springfield, IL 62703 USA; [Chen, Shengbin] Minist Environm Protect, Nanjing Inst Environm Sci, Nanjing 210042, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Chen, Shengbin; Ouyang, Zhiyun] Chinese Acad Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Mao, Lingfeng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Bot, State Key Lab Vegetat & Environm Change, Beijing 100093, Peoples R China; [Mao, Lingfeng] Chinese Acad Sci, Grad Sch, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Qian, Hong] Illinois State Museum, Res & Collect Ctr, 1011 East Ash St, Springfield, IL 62703 USA								60							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000318512900003		
J	Lazarina, Maria; Sgardeli, Vasiliki; Kallimanis, Athanasios S.; Sgardelis, Stefanos P.								An effort-based index of beta diversity								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				4	3			217	225		10.1111/2041-210x.12013			MAR 2013	2013	Beta diversity provides a link between species diversity in a region to species diversity within sites. Many metrics have been proposed for its estimation each reflecting a different aspect of the phenomenon. Many of them are more informative of the variation in alpha diversity among samples and the sampling effort (number of sampling units) rather than of the species assemblage differentiation. Here, we propose an index based on the sampling effort needed to fulfil a certain criterion and accounts for the relationship between the initial slope of the species accumulation curve and mean alpha diversity. For defining the index, we consider a set of n samples with S(n) species among R(n) total occurrences. The shared species occurrences are I(n)=R(n)S(n). The proposed new index (N*) is defined as the point, in terms of n, where I(n) crosses S(n). Samples taken beyond that point (N*) contribute, cumulatively, more to the shared occurrences rather than to new species. For the estimation of N*, we provide the R function Nstar' based on the specaccum function in the vegan package. We tested the properties of N* on simulated datasets with known community assembly patterns and on a dataset of plant diversity of Greek Natura 2000 protected areas. N* is not mathematically confounded with alpha or gamma diversity. It depends on the relationship between gamma and alpha (Whittaker's index) but, furthermore, it reflects the variation in species occupancies. Thus, if a number of random samples, sufficient for the reliable estimation of mean alpha diversity and the species accumulation curve, is collected, N* converges to a value that does not change by the inclusion of more samples from the same region. N* depends primarily on the proportion of new species expected in each next sample. N* declines with nestedness in community structure, while it increases with species turnover. This holds for plant diversity of Greek Natura 2000, where N* exhibited lower values in island compared to continental regions reflecting the increased nestedness of island communities.		[Lazarina, Maria; Sgardelis, Stefanos P.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Biol, Dept Ecol, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece; [Sgardeli, Vasiliki] Univ Ioannina, Dept Biol Applicat & Technol, GR-45110 Ioannina, Greece; [Kallimanis, Athanasios S.] Univ Western Greece, Dept Environm & Nat Resources Management, Agrinion 30100, Greece; [Sgardelis, Stefanos P.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Biol, Dept Ecol, Thessaloniki 54124, Greece								12							Ecology	WOS:000316333000002		
J	Ochoa-Ochoa, Leticia M.; Rodriguez, Pilar; Mora, Franz; Flores-Villela, Oscar; Whittaker, Robert J.								Climate change and amphibian diversity patterns in Mexico								BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION				150	1			94	102		10.1016/j.biocon.2012.03.010			JUN 2012	2012	The aim of this article is to characterize at fine scale alpha and beta diversity patterns for Mexican amphibians and analyze how these patterns might change under a moderate climate-change scenario, highlighting the overall consequences for amphibian diversity at the country level. We used a geo-referenced database gathered from museums worldwide as a basis for climatic envelope models, based on the working assumptions that we can accurately model the ecological niche, niche conservatism, and that the future climate scenario is realistic. We generated six sets of models with different parameters (threshold of presence and dispersal capability) in the modelling processes. We simulated the base line (2000) and future scenarios for Mexican amphibian diversity (2020, 2050, 2080), using climate data layers constructed for Mexico. Using moving-window analyses of different sizes (9, 25, 100, 225 and 400 km(2)) we calculated beta diversity with R.H. Whittaker's formula beta = gamma/alpha(mean). We analyzed the changes of alpha- and beta-diversity spatial patterns during these periods, and performed an analysis of sensitivity for the beta-diversity patterns. We found that setting low dispersal capability generates high levels of species extinctions, but the overall geographic pattern of beta diversity remained stable. Zones of high beta diversity resulted that were associated with topographic formations, while the values of beta diversity initially increased, and then declined over time. Extinctions (complete loss of range within country boundaries) were particularly intense during the period 2020-2050. The results implied that heterogeneous zones associated with mountain ranges will remain particularly important for amphibian diversity and thus constitute areas for continued conservation prioritization in the face of climate change. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ochoa-Ochoa, Leticia M.; Whittaker, Robert J.] Univ Oxford, Oxford Univ Ctr Environm, Sch Geog & Environm, Oxford OX1 3QY, England; [Rodriguez, Pilar; Mora, Franz] Comis Nacl Conocimiento & Uso Biodiversidad CONAB, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Ochoa-Ochoa, Leticia M.; Flores-Villela, Oscar] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Museo Zool, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Whittaker, Robert J.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Biol, Ctr Macroecol Evolut & Climate, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Ochoa-Ochoa, Leticia M.] Univ Oxford, Oxford Univ Ctr Environm, Sch Geog & Environm, S Parks Rd, Oxford OX1 3QY, England								54							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000305724100012		
J	Botta-Dukat, Zoltan								Co-occurrence-based measure of species' habitat specialization: robust, unbiased estimation in saturated communities								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				23	2			201	207		10.1111/j.1654-1103.2011.01347.x			APR 2012	2012	Aims: Large vegetation plot databases enable the estimation of niche width from species co-occurrence data. Different indices have been proposed for this purpose, but do not give unbiased (i. e. independent of species pool size) and robust estimates over a wide range of conditions. The aims of the paper are to: (1) demonstrate the limitations of different methods, and (2) propose a new algorithm that results in unbiased and robust estimates. Results: Whittaker's b-diversity, calculated from raw data, is an unbiased niche width measure only if the relationship between c-diversity and local richness is linear. However, this requirement is satisfied only in specific conditions, if both c-diversity and local richness are linear functions of the species pool size with zero intercept. I propose the use of Beals smoothing to estimate species pools. It has been proved through analysis of simulated data thatWhittaker's b calculated from species pool data is an unbiased estimate of niche width. I have shown that the robustness of the estimate can be improved by excluding extremely speciesrich plots. The relative role of methodological decisions during niche width estimation was explored through analysis of a large field data set (> 8000 releve ' s). Conclusions: The proposed algorithm results in robust, unbiased estimation, even in saturated communities, thus it avoids the drawbacks of the co-occurrence- based niche widthmeasures proposed earlier.		Hungarian Acad Sci, Dept Plant Ecol, Inst Ecol & Bot, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary; [Botta-Dukat, Zoltan] Hungarian Acad Sci, Dept Plant Ecol, Inst Ecol & Bot, Alkotmany U 2-4, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary								23							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000301497000001		
J	Simoes Vitule, Jean Ricardo; Skora, Felipe; Abilhoa, Vinicius								Homogenization of freshwater fish faunas after the elimination of a natural barrier by a dam in Neotropics								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				18	2			111	120		10.1111/j.1472-4642.2011.00821.x			FEB 2012	2012	Aim We quantify biotic homogenization of fish fauna caused by the elimination of a natural barrier between two freshwater ecoregions. We also evaluated fish introductions by different mechanisms such as aquaculture, angling and the aquarium trade in the homogenization of fish assemblages. The relative importance of native extinctions in the homogenization process was assessed by simulating the exclusion of threatened species in the data set. Location Parana River, south-eastern South America. Methods A fish species list of the Parana River Basin was organized in a subset of species distributions, according to pre- and post-introductions caused by the elimination of the natural barrier and by other mechanisms. Biotic homogenization was verified by the use of Jaccard's and Bray-Curtis's coefficients, Whittaker's beta diversity index, non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis (NMDS) and nonparametric tests. Results For all subsets of species distributions, we observed an increase in the number of non-native species in common related to the introductions. Between 40 and 52% of the species currently present in the Upper Parana Basin dispersed upstream from the Lower Parana after the construction of Itaipu Dam, including at least 1 class, 2 orders, 4 families and 16 genera of fish. Jaccard's coefficient between the Upper and Lower Parana River increased by 6-7.5% only considering the Itaipu Dam influence and 10.5% considering all mechanisms of fish introductions. More than 50% of the increase in similarity was caused by the elimination of the barrier. Our results indicated functional homogenization related to large-bodied Siluriformes (catfish). Main conclusions Itaipu Lake flooded a natural barrier and allowed hydrologic connectivity between the Upper and Lower Parana River, and many fishes of the lower part of the river were able to colonize the upper stretches. The homogenization of the two assemblages between these adjacent aquatic regions was an unpredicted result of hydropower implementation. Introductions by dam can also shift longitudinal and latitudinal body size patterns (i.e. Bergmann's rule).		[Simoes Vitule, Jean Ricardo] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Tecnol, Dept Engn Ambiental, Lab Ecol & Conservacao, BR-81531970 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Simoes Vitule, Jean Ricardo; Skora, Felipe; Abilhoa, Vinicius] Museu Hist Nat Capao Imbuia, Grp Pesquisas Ictiofauna, BR-82810080 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Simoes Vitule, Jean Ricardo; Skora, Felipe] Univ Fed Brasil, Setor Ciencias Biol, PPG Ecol & Conservacao, BR-81531980 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Simoes Vitule, Jean Ricardo] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Tecnol, Dept Engn Ambiental, Lab Ecol & Conservacao, BR-81531970 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								145							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000298874900002		
J	Vignatti, Alicia M.; Paggi, Juan C.; Cabrera, Gabriela C.; Echaniz, Santiago A.								Zooplankton diversity and its relationship with environmental changes after the filling of a temporary saline lake in the semi-arid region of La Pampa, Argentina								LATIN AMERICAN JOURNAL OF AQUATIC RESEARCH				40	4			1005	1016		10.3856/vol40-issue4-fulltext-16			2012	2012	Temporary water bodies can remain active as such for varying periods. However, they are reservoirs (as "egg banks") of species adapted to these special conditions. In central Argentina, there are numerous temporary lakes, which have only recently begun to be studied. The aim of this work was to describe the succession of changes in diversity, abundance and biomass of zooplankton as well as in the environment, over a period of eleven months, as from the filling of a temporary saline lake, and test the hypothesis that i) salinity affects negatively the richness and abundance but positively the biomass, and ii) due to changes in environmental conditions produced by advancing the hydroperiod, different species emerge from the egg bank at different times. At the beginning, when salinity was reduced and the concentration of chlorophyll-a was higher, we recorded the highest diversity, due mainly by less tolerance species. Later, as salinity increased, the macrophyta Ruppia cirrhosa developed and covered 90% of the surface of the lake, the concentration of chlorophyll-a decreased and the water transparency increased. The zooplankton richness decreased and the community was integrated only by halotolerant species. In the first two months, there was an increased replacement of species, indicated by the high value of Whittaker's beta diversity index (0.63), the density was high, with a predominance of microzooplankton, so the registered biomass was relatively reduced. Then, abundance decreased markedly, and was mostly dominated by macrozooplankton, so the biomass increased. When salinity exceeded 11 g L-1, there was a predominance of the halophilic cladoceran Daphnia menucoensis, a species of ecological importance because it's high grazing pressure on phytoplankton. In this study, in addition to the modulating effect of salinity on the richness, abundance and zooplankton biomass, it was verified that the diversity present in the egg bank of temporary saline lakes is higher than that recorded in the water column at any time during hydrophases.		[Vignatti, Alicia M.; Cabrera, Gabriela C.; Echaniz, Santiago A.] Univ Nacl La Pampa, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, RA-6300 Santa Rosa, Provincia De La, Argentina; [Paggi, Juan C.] Inst Nacl Limnol CONICET, Santa Fe, Argentina; [Vignatti, Alicia M.] Univ Nacl La Pampa, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Ave Uruguay 151, RA-6300 Santa Rosa, Provincia De La, Argentina								12							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000314516300016		
J	Jurasinski, Gerald; Koch, Marian								Commentary: do we have a consistent terminology for species diversity? We are on the way								OECOLOGIA				167	4			893	902		10.1007/s00442-011-2126-6			DEC 2011	2011	A consistent terminology for species diversity is subject of an ongoing debate. Recently Tuomisto (Oecologia 164:853-860, 2010) stated that a consistent terminology for diversity already exists. The paper comments on recent papers by ourselves (Jurasinski et al. Oecologia 159:15-26, 2009) and by Moreno and Rodriguez (Oecologia 163:279-282, 2010). Both started from Whittaker's diversity concept to discuss the ambiguities of the terminology and propose a new, more consistent terminology that is based on the different approaches to diversity analysis. In contrast, Tuomisto adheres to a strict school of thinking and derives a diversity framework in the sense of Whittaker (alpha, beta, gamma) from the conceptual definition of diversity itself. A third group of papers discusses appropriate methods for the analysis of the variation in species composition. Here, we support the idea that alpha, beta and gamma diversity should be used in a strict sense that is based only on the conceptual definition of diversity. We accordingly extend and modify our terminological concept for species diversity. All approaches to the analysis and quantification of species composition and diversity can be assigned to three abstraction levels (species composition, variation in species composition,and variation in variation in species composition) and two scale levels (sample scale, aggregation scale). All methods that investigate the variation in species composition across scale levels evaluate beta relation with beta diversity being just one form of beta relation, which is calculated by dividing gamma diversity of order q by the appropriate alpha diversity of the same order. In contrast, differentiation refers to a pairwise calculation of resemblance in species composition. It is restricted to sample scale and is therefore most often only an intermediate step of analysis. Many ecological questions can be addressed either by direct analysis of the variation in species composition using raw data approaches or by further analysis of differentiation datasets on aggregation scale with or without respect to an external gradient.		[Jurasinski, Gerald; Koch, Marian] Univ Rostock, Fac Agr & Environm Sci, D-18051 Rostock, Germany; [Jurasinski, Gerald] Univ Rostock, Fac Agr & Environm Sci, D-18051 Rostock, Germany								22							Ecology	WOS:000297133800003		
J	Holland, Steven M.								ADDITIVE DIVERSITY PARTITIONING IN PALAEOBIOLOGY: REVISITING SEPKOSKI'S QUESTION								PALAEONTOLOGY				53				1237	1254		10.1111/j.1475-4983.2010.01017.x			NOV 2010	2010	Using Whittaker's concepts of alpha, beta, and gamma diversity, Sepkoski asked how global diversity was assembled at scales ranging from the community to the province. In the years since, ecologists have recast diversity in terms of additive partitions where total diversity can be decomposed into sample-level alpha diversity plus the sum of a series of beta diversity terms that reflect progressively larger spatial scales. Given that marine alpha diversity represents a tiny fraction of global diversity, Phanerozoic global diversity patterns must be dominated by changes in beta diversity at one or more scales. A ballooning ecological literature demonstrates wide variation in beta diversity among ecosystems, regions, and taxa, suggesting that large changes in beta diversity on evolutionary timescales are likely. But the question is which scales are the most important. Several recent palaeontological studies help to constrain beta diversity within sedimentary basins, and the emergence of sample-based databases puts an answer to Sepkoski's question within reach. A new method for calculating diversity partitions for richness is introduced, which allows the calculation of each species' contribution to alpha and beta diversity, as well as the contribution of each sampling unit to beta diversity.		Univ Georgia, Dept Geol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Holland, Steven M.] Univ Georgia, Dept Geol, Athens, GA 30602 USA								33							Paleontology	WOS:000284320600004		
J	Taylor, Eric B.								Changes in taxonomy and species distributions and their influence on estimates of faunal homogenization and differentiation in freshwater fishes								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				16	4			676	689		10.1111/j.1472-4642.2010.00670.x			JUL 2010	2010	Aim To assess how changing taxonomy and distribution data affect estimates of faunal homogenization and differentiation as agents of global change in freshwater fishes. Location Provinces and territories of Canada. Methods Species presence-absence data were collated in 2000 and 2005 from regional and national lists, and faunal homogenization and differentiation were calculated using Jaccard's faunal similarity index. Differences between time periods and areas were summarized using principal coordinate analysis. Differences in faunal assemblages between native and total faunas were assessed via Whittaker's (1960) beta diversity (beta(w)) index and tests of differences in multivariate dispersion of fish species compositions. Results Among aquatic ecoregions in one province (British Columbia) there were four taxonomic changes and 18 distributional changes between the 2000 and 2005 databases. Pairwise Jaccard's faunal similarity index between the eight aquatic ecoregions declined by an average of 4.8% from 35.9% in native faunas to 31.1% in total faunas (introductions - extinctions/extirpations) indicating overall faunal differentiation. Average pairwise similarity declined by 0.9% between 2000 and 2005. Across thirteen provinces and territories of Canada, there were five taxonomic changes and 61 distributional changes between the 2000 and 2005 databases. Generally, faunal homogenization increased; pairwise Jaccard's increased by an average of 1.8% from 27.1% in native faunas to 28.9% in total faunas or an average of 0.6% per comparison. Main conclusions Despite changing taxonomy and fish distribution information, comparative analysis of 2000 and 2005 databases consistently show overall faunal differentiation at the smallest (provincial) spatial scale and homogenization at the largest scale (across Canada) and that these trends continued between time periods. Homogenization and differentiation followed expectations from conceptual models based on the relative prevalence of species invasions and extinctions within communities. General conclusions of the onset and extent of homogenization and differentiation were relatively insensitive to our changing understanding of taxonomy and distribution.		[Taylor, Eric B.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Zool, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Taylor, Eric B.] Univ British Columbia, Native Fishes Res Grp, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Taylor, Eric B.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Zool, 6270 Univ Blvd, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada								21							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000278646000015		
J	Tuomisto, Hanna								A diversity of beta diversities: straightening up a concept gone awry. Part 1. Defining beta diversity as a function of alpha and gamma diversity								ECOGRAPHY				33	1			2	22		10.1111/j.1600-0587.2009.05880.x			FEB 2010	2010	The term beta diversity has been used to refer to a wide variety of phenomena. Although all of these encompass some kind of compositional heterogeneity between places, many are not related to each other in any predictable way. The present two-part review aims to put the different phenomena that have been called a beta component of diversity into a common conceptual framework, and to explain what each of them measures. In this first part, the focus is on defining beta diversity. This involves deciding what diversity is and how the observed total or gamma diversity (gamma) is partitioned into alpha (alpha) and beta (beta) components. Several different definitions of "beta diversity" that result from these decisions have been used in the ecological literature. True beta diversity is obtained when the total effective number of species in a dataset (true gamma diversity gamma) is multiplicatively partitioned into the effective number of species per compositionally distinct virtual sampling unit (true alpha diversity alpha(d)) and the effective number of such compositional units (beta(Md)=gamma/alpha(d)). All true diversities quantify the effective number of types of entities. Because the other variants of "beta diversity" that have been used by ecologists quantify other phenomena, an alternative nomenclature is proposed here for the seven most popular beta components: regional-to-local diversity ratio, two-way diversity ratio, absolute effective species turnover (=regional diversity excess), Whittaker's effective species turnover, proportional effective species turnover, regional entropy excess and regional variance excess. In the second part of the review, the focus will be on how to quantify these phenomena in practice. This involves deciding how the sampling units that contribute to total diversity are selected, and whether the entity that is quantified is all of "beta diversity", a specific part of "beta diversity", the rate of change in "beta diversity" in relation to a given external factor, or something else.		Univ Turku, Dept Biol, FI-20014 Turku, Finland; [Tuomisto, Hanna] Univ Turku, Dept Biol, FI-20014 Turku, Finland								731							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000275205200002		
J	Gray, Duncan; Harding, Jon S.								Braided river benthic diversity at multiple spatial scales: a hierarchical analysis of β diversity in complex floodplain systems								JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY				28	3			537	551		10.1899/08-136.1			SEP 2009	2009	Despite the global occurrence of braided rivers and the frequency with which they are anthropogenically modified, the benthic diversity of their floodplains and, in particular, lateral and longitudinal patterns in their communities have been neglected. A spatially nested, hierarchical survey was conducted of 11 braided rivers in the South and North Islands of New Zealand to investigate benthic invertebrate diversity at multiple spatial scales. In each river, 6 reaches and up to 5 floodplain habitat types within each reach were sampled. From a total of 203 sites, 145 taxa were identified. Benthic invertebrate diversity was highly variable at the island, river, reach, and habitat scales. Diversity differences between islands were driven by high regional endemism. Diversity at the whole-river scale ranged from 99 taxa in the Wairau River to only 56 in the Waiapu River. At the reach scale, no significant differences in diversity or abundance were found longitudinally down the rivers. At the habitat scale, lateral floodplain habitats, particularly spring creeks, consistently had greater richness and abundance than did adjacent main channel habitats. Comparisons of Whittaker's multiplicative beta at different spatial scales revealed that the greatest range and mean value of taxon turnover was among habitats within reaches. Additive partitioning of P diversity indicated that diversity values at the broad spatial scales of reach and river contributed disproportionately to overall diversity. Our results indicate that river managers concerned with maintaining diversity should focus their efforts at the whole-river scale rather than attempting management of smaller units representing local scales. However, at finer scales, lateral floodplain habitats (particularly springs and floodplain ponds) are hot spots of diversity and protection and remediation of these habitats are particularly important.		[Gray, Duncan; Harding, Jon S.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand; [Gray, Duncan] Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand								27							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000273885900002		
J	Aldea, Cristian; Olabarria, Celia; Troncoso, Jesus S.								Spatial patterns of benthic diversity in molluscs from West Antarctica								ANTARCTIC SCIENCE				21	4			341	353		10.1017/S0954102009002016			AUG 2009	2009	Despite several works that have documented patterns of diversity in deep sea organisms, trends of diversity and the processes responsible for such trends still remain unclear. To date very few studies have documented the effects of variables such as latitude and longitude in deep-sea organisms in the Antarctic region. We explored the spatial patterns of diversity of benthic gastropods and bivalves in an extensive region about 2200 kin long and 500 km wide from the South Shetland Islands to the Bellingshausen Sea in West Antarctica. A total of 134 species from 54 sites was recorded. Alpha diversity and beta diversity (measured as Whittaker's and Bray-Curtis similarity indices) were highly variable among areas. None of the species richness estimators measured as S(obs), Chao2, Jacknife1 and Jacknife2, stabilized towards asymptotic values in any area. The number of rare species was large with almost half of species represented by I or 2 individuals (41%) and most species (62%) restricted to 1 or 2 sites. The partial Mantel test revealed that similarity between sites increased with the decrease of depth differences, but not with horizontal separation.		[Aldea, Cristian; Olabarria, Celia; Troncoso, Jesus S.] Univ Vigo, Dept Ecol & Biol Anim, Fac Ciencias Mar, Vigo 36310, Spain; [Aldea, Cristian] Fdn Ctr Estudios Cuaternario Fuego Patagonia & An, Punta Arenas 01890, Chile; [Aldea, Cristian] Univ Vigo, Dept Ecol & Biol Anim, Fac Ciencias Mar, Campus Lagoas Marcosende, Vigo 36310, Spain								5							Environmental Sciences; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000268081200004		
J	Ricotta, Carlo; Burrascano, Sabina								Testing for differences in beta diversity with asymmetric dissimilarities								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				9	4			719	724		10.1016/j.ecolind.2008.09.003			JUL 2009	2009	in this paper, expanding on a well-known connection between Whittaker's beta diversity and multivariate dissimilarity coefficients, a simple test for differences in beta diversity among different sets of plots is proposed. Being based on any suitable (not necessarily symmetric) plot-to-plot dissimilarity coefficient the test is appropriate for analyzing multivariate data that are usually zero-inflated due to the large number of rare species and for which the number of variables (species) is typically larger than the number of observations (plots). To illustrate the proposed test in practice, we used data from two beech forests with different management history in Abruzzo (central Italy). (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ricotta, Carlo; Burrascano, Sabina] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								23							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000263395500010		
J	de Bello, Francesco; Thuiller, Wilfried; Leps, Jan; Choler, Philippe; Clement, Jean-Christophe; Macek, Petr; Sebastia, Maria-Teresa; Lavorel, Sandra								Partitioning of functional diversity reveals the scale and extent of trait convergence and divergence								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				20	3			475	486		10.1111/j.1654-1103.2009.01042.x			JUN 2009	2009	Trait differentiation among species occurs at different spatial scales within a region. How does the partitioning of functional diversity help to identify different community assembly mechanisms? Northeastern Spain. Functional diversity can be partitioned into within-community (alpha) and among-communities (beta) components, in analogy to Whittaker's classical alpha and beta species diversity concept. In light of ecological null models, we test and discuss two algorithms as a framework to measure alpha and beta functional diversity (the Rao quadratic entropy index and the variance of trait values). Species and trait (specific leaf area) data from pastures under different climatic conditions in NE Spain are used as a case study. The proposed indices show different mathematical properties but similarly account for the spatial components of functional diversity. For all vegetation types along the climatic gradient, the observed alpha functional diversity was lower than expected at random, an observation consistent with the hypothesis of trait convergence resulting from habitat filtering. On the other hand, our data exhibited a remarkably higher functional diversity within communities compared to among communities (alpha >beta). In contrast to the high species turnover, there was a limited functional diversity turnover among communities, and a large part of the trait divergence occurred among coexisting species. Partitioning functional diversity within and among communities revealed that both trait convergence and divergence occur in the formation of assemblages from the local species pool. A considerable trait convergence exists at the regional scale in spite of changes in species composition, suggesting the existence of ecological redundancy among communities.		[de Bello, Francesco; Thuiller, Wilfried; Choler, Philippe; Clement, Jean-Christophe; Lavorel, Sandra] Univ Grenoble 1, CNRS, Lab Ecol Alpine, UMR 5553, F-38041 Grenoble, France; [de Bello, Francesco; Sebastia, Maria-Teresa] Univ Lleida, Agron Engn Sch, E-25198 Lleida, Spain; [de Bello, Francesco; Sebastia, Maria-Teresa] Forestry & Technol Ctr Catalonia, Lab Plant Ecol & Forest Bot, E-28240 Solsona, Spain; [Leps, Jan; Macek, Petr] Univ S Bohemia, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Leps, Jan] Acad Sci Czech Republ, Inst Entomol, CZ-37005 Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Macek, Petr] Acad Sci Czech Republ, Inst Bot, CZ-37982 Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [de Bello, Francesco] Univ Grenoble 1, CNRS, Lab Ecol Alpine, UMR 5553, F-38041 Grenoble, France								213							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000266244100010		
J	Novelo-Gutierrez, Rodolfo; Antonio Gomez-Anaya, Jose								A comparative study of Odonata (Insecta) assemblages along an altitudinal gradient in the sierra de Coalcoman Mountains, Michoacan, Mexico								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				18	3			679	698		10.1007/s10531-008-9533-y			MAR 2009	2009	Odonate diversity in the Coalcoman Mountain Range (CMR), Michoacan State, Mexico, was surveyed, and samplings were made during 2 years in eight streams along an altitudinal gradient. Presence-absence data were analyzed using non-parametric and parametric methods. Beta and gamma diversities were estimated using Whittaker's and Lande's formulae, respectively. A total of 2,526 adults and 489 larvae were captured, yielding 116 species (gamma diversity), 44 genera and 9 families. Five new species were discovered. The genus Argia was the most important contributor to Zygoptera diversity and total richness (gamma diversity), yielding 40.4 and 14.7%, respectively. The non-parametric estimator Chao2 provided the closest theoretical estimate of species richness, and Clench's model fit the data well (R (2) ranged from 99.44 to 99.99) to explain a high proportion of the variance (98.8). We conclude that beta diversity is important at the landscape scale, supporting the hypothesis that Mexico is a beta diverse country. Our results triple the number of known species of Odonata for Michoacan. Given the considerable richness of odonates at local and landscape scales, our results support the proposal of the Coalcoman Mountain Range as a priority area for conservation and related research.		[Novelo-Gutierrez, Rodolfo; Antonio Gomez-Anaya, Jose] Inst Ecol, Dept Entomol, AC, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico; [Novelo-Gutierrez, Rodolfo] Inst Ecol, Dept Entomol, AC, Km 2-5 Carretera Antigua Coatepec 351, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico								23							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000263352200012		
J	Battisti, C.; Malavasi, R.; Carpaneto, G. M.								BREEDING AND WINTERING BIRD ASSEMBLAGES IN A MEDITERRANEAN WETLAND: A COMPARISON USING A DIVERSITY/DOMINANCE APPROACH								VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT				59	1			1	6					JAN 2009	2009	We studied the structure of breeding and wintering bird assemblages ill a Mediterranean wetland of Central Italy with the aim of evaluating seasonal structural changes and the role of habitat heterogeneity oil the avian community. The wintering assemblage showed higher values of species richness, diversity and evenness. The seasonal differences were represented through a diversity/dominance approach (species rank/relative occurrence diagram or Whittaker plots), and the curve obtained for winter showed a significantly shallower slope if compared with that for the breeding season (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). K-dominance plots also revealed a different shape in the accumulation curve of the relative occurrence values between wintering and breeding season. Whittaker's beta-diversity was higher in winter. In Mediterranean wetlands, intrinsic constraints (e.g. phenology and ecology of the species) seem to be crucial in determining the community structure and the shape of diversity/dominance curves. In winter, many species are vagrant and sparsely distributed, and belong to species-rich taxonomic groups (e.g., waders, ducks), while in the breeding season most of species are common and more uniformly spread. Extrinsic constraints also affect bird assemblages in winter: the presence of water induces an increase of habitat heterogeneity, expressed by the beta-diversity index. These habitat changes induce an increase of occurrence values, species richness, diversity and evenness. The shape of the seasonal curves in Whittaker plots followed the MacArthur broken-stick model.		[Battisti, C.] Prov Rome, Environm Serv, Conservat Nat Off, I-00159 Rome, Italy; [Malavasi, R.; Carpaneto, G. M.] Rome Tre Univ, Dept Biol, I-00146 Rome, Italy; [Battisti, C.] Prov Rome, Environm Serv, Conservat Nat Off, Via Tiburtina 691, I-00159 Rome, Italy								7							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000270377300001		
J	Manthey, Michael; Fridley, Jason D.								Beta diversity metrics and the estimation of niche width via species co-occurrence data: reply to Zeleny								JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				97	1			18	22		10.1111/j.1365-2745.2008.01450.x			JAN 2009	2009	1. Zeleny (2008) demonstrated that the co-occurrence based assessment of species habitat specialization (introduced by Fridley et al. 2007) depends on the size of the species pool. To correct for the effect of the species pool on the estimation of species niche width, Zeleny suggested a modification of the original algorithm by replacing additive partitioning as a measure of beta diversity with Whittaker's beta. 2. We used simulated data to show that the alternative index proposed by Zeleny (2008) will poorly represent the niche widths of species inhabiting a set of plots with a highly skewed distribution of local richness values. We therefore expand on Zeleny's (2008) analysis by considering two additional metrics of beta diversity based on compositional similarity and by testing the performance of these indices under different local-regional richness relationships. 3. Synthesis. None of the four tested metrics of beta diversity produced unbiased estimates of niche width under curvilinear local-regional richness relationships. In this context, we provide additional guidance to potential users of co-occurrence based niche width estimates by specifying the conditions under which certain indices of beta diversity best represent niche width information.		[Manthey, Michael] Univ Greifswald, Inst Bot & Landscape Ecol, D-17487 Greifswald, Germany; [Fridley, Jason D.] Syracuse Univ, Dept Biol, Syracuse, NY 13244 USA; [Manthey, Michael] Univ Greifswald, Inst Bot & Landscape Ecol, D-17487 Greifswald, Germany								40							Plant Sciences; Ecology	WOS:000261684400004		
J	Zeleny, David								Co-occurrence based assessment of species habitat specialization is affected by the size of species pool: reply to Fridley <i>et al</i>. (2007)								JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				97	1			10	17		10.1111/j.1365-2745.2008.01394.x			JAN 2009	2009	1. Fridley et al. (2007) introduced a technique of species habitat specialization assessment based on co-occurrence analysis of large species-plot matrixes, with a continuous metric (theta value) intended to reflect relative species niche width. 2. They used simulated data in order to demonstrate the functionality of the new method. I repeated their simulation and introduced three alternative scenarios with various patterns of species pool size along a simulated gradient. Results indicated that the co-occurrence based estimation of species niche width is dependent on the size of species pool at the position of species optima. This relationship was also revealed in an analysis of a real data set with Ellenberg indicator values as surrogates for environmental gradients. 3. I introduced a modification of the original algorithm, which corrects the effect of the species pool on the estimation of species niche width: the beta diversity measure based on additive partitioning was replaced with the multiplicative Whittaker's beta. Even after this, the method can satisfactorily recover the real pattern of species specialization only for unsaturated communities with a linear relationship between local and regional species richness. 4. Synthesis. This paper corrects the algorithm for co-occurrence based estimation of species specialization, introduced by Fridley et al. (2007), which was sensitive to the changes in species pool size along environmental gradients.		[Zeleny, David] Masaryk Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, CZ-61137 Brno, Czech Republic; [Zeleny, David] Univ S Bohemia, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, CZ-37005 Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Zeleny, David] Masaryk Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, Kotlarska 2, CZ-61137 Brno, Czech Republic								36							Plant Sciences; Ecology	WOS:000261684400003		
J	Lososova, Zdenka; Cimalova, Sarka								Effects of different cultivation types on native and alien weed species richness and diversity in Moravia (Czech Republic)								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				10	5			456	465		10.1016/j.baae.2008.11.001			2009	2009	Changes in weed species richness and beta-diversity are partly attributable to different types and intensity of disturbance and partly to broad-scale variation in environmental conditions. We compiled a data set of 434 vegetation plots of weed vegetation in root crop and cereal fields in Moravia (eastern Czech Republic) to compare the effects of environmental conditions and different disturbance regimes on species richness and beta-diversity. To detect changes in species richness, we related the variation in species richness to individual environmental conditions. To assess differences in beta-diversity between the vegetation of cereal and root crop fields, we used Whittaker's measure of beta-diversity. The relative importance of each environmental variable for the variation in species composition was evaluated using canonical correspondence analysis. All analyses were done for all vascular plant species and separately for native species, archaeophytes and neophytes. A comparison of weed vegetation of root crops and cereals showed a distinct dichotomy between these two types of weed vegetation. There was no significant difference in total species richness and native species richness; however, cereal fields were richer in archaeophytes and root crop fields were richer in neophytes. The beta-diversity of weed vegetation was higher in root crops. Environmental factors explained a significant part of the variability in richness of both natives and aliens. The richness of native species increased and beta-diversity decreased with increasing precipitation. The opposite relationship was found for archaeophytes, in both cereals and root crops. These results confirmed the importance of climatic factors and management practices for changes in weed species composition. They also showed a distinct pattern of species richness and beta-diversity of native and alien weed species. (C) 2008 Geselischaft fur Okologie. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Lososova, Zdenka] Masaryk Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Biol, CZ-60300 Brno, Czech Republic; [Lososova, Zdenka] Masaryk Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot & Zool, CZ-61137 Brno, Czech Republic; [Cimalova, Sarka] Univ Ostrava, Fac Sci, Dept Biol & Ecol, Ostrava 71000, Czech Republic; [Lososova, Zdenka] Masaryk Univ, Fac Educ, Dept Biol, Porici 7, CZ-60300 Brno, Czech Republic								25							Ecology	WOS:000268839500008		
J	Fontana, Giovanni; Ugland, Karl I.; Gray, John S.; Willis, Trevor J.; Abbiati, Marco								Influence of rare species on beta diversity estimates in marine benthic assemblages								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				366	1-2			104	108		10.1016/j.jembe.2008.07.014			NOV 15 2008	2008	Beta diversity measures the variability in species composition, and Whittaker's index has become the most widely used measure of P-diversity. However, on soft bottom benthic assemblages Whittaker's index is heavily influenced by the number of species recorded in a single sample (defined as rare species). This over-weighting of rare species induces biased estimates of the heterogeneity, so it becomes difficult to compare assemblages containing an high proportion of rare species. In benthic communities the unusual large number of rare species is frequently attributed to a combination of sampling errors and insufficient sampling effort. In order to reduce the influence of rare species on the measure of beta diversity. we developed an alternative index based on simple probabilistic considerations. It turns out that our probability index is an ordinary Michaelis-Menten transformation of Whittaker's index but behaves more favourably when species heterogeneity increases. Our suggested index therefore seems appropriate when comparing patterns of complexity in marine benthic assemblages. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Fontana, Giovanni; Abbiati, Marco] Univ Bologna, Ctr Interdipartimentale Ric Sci Ambientali, I-48100 Ravenna, Italy; [Ugland, Karl I.; Gray, John S.] Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, N-0316 Oslo, Norway; [Abbiati, Marco] Univ Bologna, Dipartimento Biol Evoluzionist Sperimentale, Bologna, Italy; [Willis, Trevor J.] Natl Inst Water & Atmospher Res, Nelson 7010, New Zealand; [Fontana, Giovanni] Univ Bologna, Ctr Interdipartimentale Ric Sci Ambientali, Via S Alberto 163, I-48100 Ravenna, Italy								15							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000261272200013		
J	Munari, Cristina; Mistri, Michele								Biodiversity of soft-sediment benthic communities from Italian transitional waters								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				35	9			1622	1637		10.1111/j.1365-2699.2008.01919.x			SEP 2008	2008	Aim For conservation purposes, it is important to understand the forces that shape biodiversity in transitional waters (TWs) and to evaluate the effects of small-scale latitudinal changes. To this end, we analysed data on soft-sediment macroinvertebrates from nine Italian TWs in order to (1) investigate the structure and distribution of the benthic fauna and their relationships with environmental and geographical variables, and (2) examine species richness and beta-diversity at various spatial scales. Location European Transition Waters Ecoregion 6. Methods Using a data set collected along a 7 degrees latitudinal cline between 45 degrees 28' N and 39 degrees 56' N, we used Spearman's rank correlation analysis to evaluate the relationships between species richness and both environmental and geographical variables, and linear regression analysis to show the relationships between alpha-, beta- and gamma-diversity. Three measures were used to assess beta-diversity: Whittaker's beta(W,) and two similarity indices, namely the Bray-Curtis similarity index and Delta(s). Using multivariate analyses, we determined the similarity in composition of the benthic community between sites and compared the biotic ordination with abiotic (geographical and environmental) characteristics. Results Two hundred and sixty-eight species were recorded from 46 sites. Of these, 53.4% were restricted to one TW. Annelida was the dominant taxonomic group, followed by Crustacea and Mollusca. The alpha-diversity was highly variable (5-87 species) and was correlated with latitude. The gamma-diversity, measured at the TW scale, was correlated significantly with alpha-diversity. The beta-diversity increased with spatial scale and habitat heterogeneity. In the community pattern identified by multivariate analysis, TWs were segregated by latitude and biogeography, and this reflected different climatic conditions. Main conclusions We found that alpha-diversity increased when moving from higher to lower latitudes, and that it depended on both regional and local factors. In addition, we detected latitudinal variations in the extent of regional influence on local species richness. The observed distribution pattern of TW faunas depended mostly on climate type. We suggest that the distribution of annelidan species could be used as a proxy for assessing general community patterns for Italian TWs.		[Munari, Cristina; Mistri, Michele] Univ Ferrara, Dept Biol & Evolut, Via L Borsari 46, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy; [Munari, Cristina] Univ Ferrara, Dept Biol & Evolut, Via L Borsari 46, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy								31							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000258357500007		
J	Castro, Sergio A.; Jaksic, Fabian M.								How general are global trends in biotic homogenization? Floristic tracking in Chile, South America								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				17	4			524	531		10.1111/j.1466-8238.2008.00392.x			JUL 2008	2008	Aim To quantify the occurrence of floristic change in the vascular flora of Chile. We test whether continental areas have experienced floristic modification leading to either homogenization, differentiation or tracking. Location Continental Chile. Methods On the basis of the geographical distribution of native (1806 species) and naturalized plants (552 species) in continental Chile, we quantified change between two floristic stages: (1) pre-European flora, including native extant and extinct species; and (2) current flora, including native and naturalized species, but excluding extinct plants. We compared changes in compositional similarity (calculated by Jaccard's index, Delta J) between pairs of regions, and similarity decay with respect to geographical distance. Additionally, by means of Whittaker's index, we examined species turnover, distinguishing between native and naturalized plants. Results Between floristic stages (pre-European vs. current flora) no significant changes in floristic similarity were noted at national or regional scales. Similarity decay showed no statistical differences between pre-European and current flora. Analysing patterns of geographical turnover, we found that species turnover of naturalized plants over their geographical range is similar to that of native plants. Conclusions The composition of the continental flora of Chile does not show significant modifications in similarity patterns after considering naturalized species, thus indicating floristic tracking. The causes of this phenomenon may be related to the current geographical distribution of naturalized plants, which closely parallels that of native plants. Our results differ from those obtained in Northern Hemisphere continents, thus indicating that trends of biotic change may differ between hemispheres.		[Castro, Sergio A.] Univ Santiago Chile, Fac Quim & Biol, Dept Biol, Santiago 3363, Chile; [Jaksic, Fabian M.] Pontificia Univ Catolica Chile, Ctr Adv Studies Ecol & Biodivers, Santiago, Chile; [Castro, Sergio A.] Univ Santiago Chile, Fac Quim & Biol, Dept Biol, Av Libertador Bernardo Ohiggins, Santiago 3363, Chile								31							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000256614700007		
J	Jost, Lou								Partitioning diversity into independent alpha and beta components								ECOLOGY				88	10			2427	2439		10.1890/06-1736.1			OCT 2007	2007	Existing general definitions of beta diversity often produce a beta with a hidden dependence on alpha. Such a beta cannot be used to compare regions that differ in alpha diversity. To avoid misinterpretation, existing definitions of alpha and beta must be replaced by a definition that partitions diversity into independent alpha and beta components. Such a unique definition is derived here. When these new alpha and beta components are transformed into their numbers equivalents ( effective numbers of elements), Whittaker's multiplicative law ( alpha x beta gamma) is necessarily true for all indices. The new beta gives the effective number of distinct communities. The most popular similarity and overlap measures of ecology (Jaccard, Sorensen, Horn, and Morisita-Horn indices) are monotonic transformations of the new beta diversity. Shannon measures follow deductively from this formalism and do not need to be borrowed from information theory; they are shown to be the only standard diversity measures which can be decomposed into meaningful independent alpha and beta components when community weights are unequal.										1605							Ecology	WOS:000250714200002		
J	Lira-Noriega, Andres; Soberon, Jorge; Navarro-Siguenza, Adolfo G.; Nakazawa, Yoshinori; Peterson, A. Townsend								Scale dependency of diversity components estimated from primary biodiversity data and distribution maps								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				13	2			185	195		10.1111/j.1472-4642.2006.00304.x			MAR 2007	2007	Different sources of information about biodiversity may lead to unrealistic or biased estimation of its components, with different patterns according to the scale of analysis. In this study, we analyse patterns of species richness at the local (average alpha) and regional (gamma) scales, and the relationship between them (Whittaker's beta), in central Mexico, using as a source of data for the species' distributions: (1) museum specimen occurrence data for birds, and (2) distribution maps based on ecological niche models developed and refined by experts. We performed analyses at five spatial resolutions (1/32 degrees-1/2 degrees). Scale changes (grain and extent) affected significantly the estimates of average alpha, gamma, and beta. Use of raw occurrence data vs. distribution maps yielded contrasting results, with raw data underestimating alpha and overestimating beta, as functions of area. As regards species-area relationships, our results suggest a natural decomposition of factors into an area-invariant component (related to alpha), and an area dependent factor (related to beta). Most of our results are maintained in a null model that randomizes occurrences without changing observed range-size distributions. From this result we argue that average alpha and Whittaker's beta capture little information about the spatial covariation of species distribution patterns.		Univ Kansas, Nat Hist Museum, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; Univ Kansas, Biodivers Res Ctr, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA; Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Museo Zool, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ecol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Soberon, Jorge] Univ Kansas, Nat Hist Museum, Lawrence, KS 66045 USA								39							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000244608800005		
J	Diserud, Ola H.; Odegaard, Frode								A multiple-site similarity measure								BIOLOGY LETTERS				3	1			20	22		10.1098/rsbl.2006.0553			FEB 22 2007	2007	Similarity measures are among the most intuitive and common measures for comparing two or more sites, or samples, with respect to their species overlap. A restriction of similarity measures is that they are limited to pairwise comparisons even in a multiple-site study. This work presents a multiple-site similarity measure that makes use of information on species shared by more than two sites and avoids the problem of covariance between pairwise similarities in a multiple-site study. Further, we show that our multiple-site similarity measure is related to beta-diversity measures such as Whittaker's beta-diversity. Similarity measures can also be used as descriptors of effective specialization of insects to host species by measuring similarity from host observations. Finally, we show that multiple-site similarity and host specificity are two sides of the same coin.		NINA, N-7485 Trondheim, Norway; [Diserud, Ola H.] NINA, N-7485 Trondheim, Norway								110							Biology; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000243485800006		
J	Labrune, C.; Gremare, A.; Amouroux, J. M.; Sarda, R.; Gil, J.; Taboada, S.								Diversity of polychaete fauna in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean)								VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT				56	4			315	326					DEC 2006	2006	Ninety two sites (10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 m depth), located on 21 transects along the portion of coast between the Spanish-French border and the mouth of the Rhone River were sampled for sediment and polychaete fauna during September-October 1998. Four assemblages were identified using cluster analysis, namely littoral fine sands (LFS), southern littoral sandy mud (LSMS), northern littoral sandy mud (LSMN) and terrigeneous coastal mud (TCM). Several components of polychaete diversity were assessed: a-diversity (i.e., within sites), P-diversity (i.e., turnover of species over the whole sampled area), estimates of the total number of polychaete species within each assemblage and gamma-diversity (i.e., total number of polychaete species over the whole sampled area). Dominance and synthetic indices of alpha-diversity were strongly influenced by the few dominant species (i.e., mostly Ditrupa arietina and Owenia fusiformis). Whittaker's beta(w) was estimated at 9.3 when considering the whole data set, which is high compared to the few other data available for polychaete fauna. This was partly linked to the high diversity of sampled habitats as shown by the drastic decrease in beta(w), when considering each assemblage separately. In all assemblages but LSMS, beta-diversity was more affected by the habitat than by the distance between sites, which seems to reflect more small scale spatial pattern in diversity than true species substitution along a gradient. The number of polychaete species within each assemblage correlated positively with sampling effort. It was nevertheless highest for LFS (67 species) and lower for LSMN (49 species) for a standardized (9 sites) sampling effort. Several non parametric estimators were used to assess the true number of species within each assemblage. All of them resulted in quite similar total number of species per assemblage. Gamma diversity for the whole data set was computed using both the extrapolation of the accumulation curve and the TS method. Total number of observed polychaete species was 173. The extrapolation of the species accumulation curve resulted in an estimation of an overall number of 873 species versus 980 (when splitting the whole data set in 4 geographical areas) and of 1,051 (when splitting the whole data set in 4 assemblages) for the TS method. The variable estimates of total polychaete species richness based on the TS method is discussed in relation with (1) the effect of the interaction between the pattern of spatial heterogeneity and sampling design, and (2) the arbitrary assignment of a sampled surface to a single sample.		Univ Paris 06, CNRS, UMR 7621, F-66651 Banyuls Sur Mer, France; CSIC, Ctr Estudis Avancats Blanes, Blanes 17300, Girona, Spain; [Labrune, C.] Univ Paris 06, CNRS, UMR 7621, F-66651 Banyuls Sur Mer, France								6							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000246001900008		
J	Reilly, Matthew J.; Wimberly, Michael C.; Newell, Claire L.								Wildfire effects on β-diversity and species turnover in a forested landscape								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				17	4			447	454		10.1111/j.1654-1103.2006.tb02465.x			AUG 2006	2006	Questions: What are the effects of fire on the relationships between community composition and environment? Does fire affect beta-diversity and rates of species turnover along spatial and environmental gradients? Do these effects differ among functional groups? Location: Linville Gorge, in the southern Appalachians of western North Carolina, USA. Methods: We sampled all vascular plants in 20 plots (200 to 400 m(2)) before and after a wildfire. We used Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling to compare pre- and post-fire relationships between community composition and elevation, fire history, and topographic moisture. We compared Whittaker's beta(w) and quantified rates of species turnover along geographic and environmental gradients for all plants, trees, shrubs, and herbs. Randomization tests were used to determine whether rates of species turnover changed after the fire. Results: Correlations between community composition and environmental variables generally increased after fire. The largest increase was for elevation, reflecting its potential to influence fire severity. beta(w) decreased only slightly and the only statistically significant change in species turnover rates occurred for herbs over geographic distance. Conclusions: Large changes in community composition occurred after fire due to immigration of herbaceous species. Community-environment correlations increased but beta-diversity did not change because fire effects and immigration were influenced by the same environmental gradients that structured vegetation pre-fire. Results differed for herbaceous species that responded to environmental but not spatial gradients post-fire. Dispersal limitation and community resilience through resprouting or regeneration from serotinous cones in dominant woody vegetation maintain beta-diversity and species turnover after fire.		Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forest Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; Landcare Res New Zealand Ltd, Canterbury, New Zealand; [Reilly, Matthew J.] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forest Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA								20							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000241092700005		
J	Silvertown, Jonathan; Dodd, Mike; Gowing, David; Lawson, Clare; McConway, Kevin								Phylogeny and the hierarchical organization of plant diversity								ECOLOGY				87	7			S39	S49		10.1890/0012-9658(2006)87[39:PATHOO]2.0.CO;2			JUL 2006	2006	R. H. Whittaker's idea that plant diversity can be divided into a hierarchy of spatial components from alpha at the within-habitat scale through beta for the turnover of species between habitats to gamma along regional gradients implies the underlying existence of alpha, beta, and gamma niches. We explore the hypothesis that the evolution of a, (3, and gamma niches is also hierarchical, with traits that define the a niche being labile, while those defining a and 7 niches are conservative. At the a level we find support for the hypothesis in the lack of close significant phylogenetic relationship between meadow species that have similar a niches. In a second test, a niche overlap based on a variety of traits is compared between congeners and noncongeners in several communities; here, too, there is no evidence of a correlation between a niche and phylogeny. To test whether beta and gamma niches evolve conservatively, we reconstructed the evolution of relevant traits on evolutionary trees for 14 different clades. Tests against null models revealed a number of instances, including some in island radiations, in which habitat (beta niche) and elevational maximum (an aspect of the gamma niche) showed evolutionary conservatism.		Open Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, Bucks, England; Univ Reading, Sch Agr Policy & Dev, Ctr Agrienvironm Res, Reading RG6 6AR, Berks, England; Open Univ, Dept Stat, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, Bucks, England; [Silvertown, Jonathan] Open Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA, Bucks, England								188							Ecology	WOS:000239606900005		
J	Mena, JL; Vázquez-Domínguez, E								Species turnover on elevational gradients in small rodents								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				14	6			539	547		10.1111/j.1466-822x.2005.00189.x			NOV 2005	2005	Aim The elevational gradients of species richness have been well documented; however, studies about species turnover (i.e. beta diversity) in such gradients are limited. We aimed to evaluate the relationship between species turnover and elevation in rodents, and particularly to assess two assumptions at the local scale: (1) species turnover is higher at an intermediate elevation; and (2) turnover decreases at higher elevations as a result of species with larger elevational ranges; and a third assumption at a regional scale; (3) beta diversity changes positively with the size of the elevational range. Location We selected 13 studies from the literature that evaluated the relationship between elevation and species richness in rodents, which include diverse sites around the world. Methods We constructed presence/absence matrices of species occurring at 500-m intervals, in order to measure spatial species turnover, using Whittaker's (beta(w)) and Lennon's (beta(sim)) indices for pairwise comparisons between each pair of elevation intervals along the gradient (local scale), and for each elevational gradient (regional scale). The relationship between species turnover and elevation at the local scale was evaluated with a LOWESS (locally weighted sums of squares) regression analysis, to determine if the overall trend was linear or curvilinear. The expected distribution of species turnover along the elevational gradients under a mid-domain null model was evaluated for both indices, and the predicted values were statistically compared with the observed species turnover. Regression analysis was used to evaluate the relationship at the regional scale. Results Only one gradient showed spatial autocorrelation. At the local scale, species turnover showed the highest values at an intermediate elevation, which varied between 1000 and 2500 m depending on the particular mountain, for both indices. LOWESS analysis showed a curvilinear trend for most of the gradients, with nonsignificant regression results. The expected distribution of species turnover by the null mid-domain model showed a U-shaped pattern for beta(w), while no change (zero values) was predicted with beta(sim). Observed and predicted species turnover were statistically different. A positive and significant linear relationship was found at the regional scale. Conclusions Our results suggest that the presence of clearly defined species assemblages is reflected in the variation of turnover with elevation. Accordingly, (1) a common increment of species turnover around mid-elevations along the gradients was found for the rodents studied, whether measured independently (beta(sim)) or not (beta(w)), of species richness; (2) the trend was dependent on the size of the gradient: it was evident only for elevational gradients exceeding 1900 m; (3) some gradients did not show an increase in the elevational range of species at higher elevations, contrary to Stevens' rule expectations; (4) the expected species turnover distribution significantly contrasted with the empirical results, confirming that the extent and location of the species' elevational ranges that overlap along the gradient determine the trend in species turnover; and (5) larger mountains showed higher beta diversity values compared to smaller ones; the extent and location of the species' ranges also determine the species turnover at this scale. The primarily general descriptions presented are useful information towards elucidating and understanding the factors governing patterns of diversity on mountains.		Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ecol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Mena, JL] Apartado Postal 07-0145, Lima 7, Peru								52							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000232772600005		
J	Wiersma, YF; Urban, DL								Beta diversity and nature reserve system design in the Yukon, Canada								CONSERVATION BIOLOGY				19	4			1262	1272		10.1111/j.1523-1739.2005.00099.x			AUG 2005	2005	Design of protected areas has focused on setting targets for representation of biodiversity, but often these targets do not include prescriptions as to how large protected areas should be or where they should be located. Principles of island biogeography theory have been applied with some success, but they have limitations. The so-called SLOSS (single large or several small reserves) debate hinged on applications of island biogeography theory to protected areas but wets resolved only to the point that parties agreed there might be different approaches in different situations. Although proponents on both sides of the SLOSS debate generally agree that replicating protected areas is desirable, it is difficult to determine how to replicate reserves in terms of number and spatial arrangement. More important, many targets for representation often do not address issues of species persistence. Here, we used a geographic information system in a study of disturbance-sensitive mammals of the Yukon Territory, Canada, to design a protected-areas network that maintains a historical assemblage of species goals for component ecoregions. We simultaneously determined patterns of diversity as Whittaker's beta and compositional turnover and examined how these two measures can give further insights into reserve location and spatial arrangement. Both regional heterogeneity and compositional turnover between nonadjacent sites were significant predictors of the number of protected areas necessary to represent mammals within each ecoregion. Thus, protected-area planners can use diversity measures to identify number and spacing of protected areas within ecologically bounded regions.		Duke Univ, Nicholas Sch Environm & Earth Sci, Durham, NC 27708 USA; [Wiersma, YF] Univ Guelph, Dept Integrated Biol, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada								87							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000231118600032		
J	Ishida, H; Hattori, T; Takeda, Y								Comparison of species composition and richness between primary and secondary lucidophyllous forests in two altitudinal zones of Tsushima Island, Japan								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				213	1-3			273	287		10.1016/j.foreco.2005.03.046			JUL 18 2005	2005	In order to clarify the effects of forest management on the composition and richness of all vascular plant species in lucidophyllous (evergreen broad-leaved) forests, secondary lucidophyllous forest stands regenerating after clearcutting (ca. 40 years old), which were previously clear-cut logged in 15-20 year cycles, were compared with primary lucidophyllous forest stands in two altitudinal zones (Castanopsis zone, ca. < 350 m a.s.l.; and Quercus zone, ca. > 350 m a.s.l.) on Tsushima Island, Japan. For each altitudinal zone, the occurrence frequency of each species in the primary and secondary stands was compared using Fisher's exact test. Eighty-one species were shown to have a significant difference, accounting for about 49% of all species examined (n = 165). In both zones, many species found in the primary stands were absent or rare in the secondary stands. We classified all species into one of two groups: component species of lucidophyllous forests (lucidophyllous elements) and other species (non-lucidophyllous elements). The secondary stands had lower total species richness (the number of all species per 100 m(2)) than the primary stands, regardless of the altitudinal zone. The lower total species richness in the secondary Castanopsis zone stands reflected a decrease in the number of lucidophyllous elements, whereas the lower total species richness in the secondary Quercus zone stands primarily reflected a decrease in the number of non-lucidophyllous elements. The beta diversity between the altitudinal stand types, measured as Whittaker's index beta(w) was lower in the secondary stands than in the primary stands. This difference was primarily due to a lack of species characteristic of each altitudinal zone. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ Hyogo, Inst Nat & Environm Sci, Sanda 6691546, Japan; Kobe Univ, Fac Human Dev, Kobe, Hyogo 6570011, Japan; [Ishida, H] Univ Hyogo, Inst Nat & Environm Sci, Sanda 6691546, Japan								8							Forestry	WOS:000230440200021		
J	Ricotta, C								On hierarchical diversity decomposition								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				16	2			223	226		10.1111/j.1654-1103.2005.tb02359.x			APR 2005	2005	Question: According to Whittaker's proposal,ecologists have traditionally viewed beta-diversity as the ratio between gamma-diversity and average alpha-diversity. More recently, all alternative way of partitioning diversity has been 'rediscovered' for which beta-diversity is obtained as the difference between diversity and average alpha-diversity. This additive way of partitioning diversity has rapidly become a very popular framework for hierarchical diversity decomposition at various spatial scales. The question for this study is: Can we highlight any relation between these two ways of partitioning diversity, or do these methods really capture different facets of spatial turnover in species composition? Methods: First the properties that a diversity measure should possess for enabling additive decomposition into alpha-, beta-, and gamma-components are reviewed. Next, attention is drawn to the relationships between additive and multiplicative diversity decomposition. Results: It is shown that the additive model is closely related to its multiplicative counterpart through a simple logarithmic transformation. Conclusions: Contrary to the current assumption, both methods for partitioning diversity are not as different as they appear. Hence, the supposed superiority of additive diversity partition over multiplicative diversity decomposition is largely unjustified.		Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, C] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								25							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000230080600011		
J	Kiflawi, M; Spencer, M								Confidence intervals and hypothesis testing for beta diversity								ECOLOGY				85	10			2895	2900		10.1890/03-3058			OCT 2004	2004	Under R. H. Whittaker's "multiplicative" perspective of species diversity, regional (gamma) diversity is viewed as the product of within-assemblage (alpha) diversity and among-assemblage (eta) diversity. An additive perspective, which views alpha and beta as complements, has recently been endorsed for the study of spatial patterns in species diversity. Here we highlight the relation between the two measures of beta diversity, showing the multiplicative beta as a simple summary statistic of the relation between the additive components. We provide analytical solutions for approximate confidence intervals and hypothesis tests for both measures of beta diversity. We also present results of simulation studies that can help delimit the sample sizes needed for future studies, and which suggest the effect-size likely to be detected with samples of a given size.		Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Life Sci, IL-84105 Beer Sheva, Israel; H Steinitz Marine Biol Lab, Elat, Israel; Univ Cambridge, Dept Biochem, Cambridge, England; [Kiflawi, M] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Dept Life Sci, IL-84105 Beer Sheva, Israel								25							Ecology	WOS:000224844700029		
J	Shin, PKS; Ellingsen, KE								Spatial patterns of soft-sediment benthic diversity in subtropical Hong Kong waters								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				276				25	35		10.3354/meps276025			2004	2004	It has long been assumed that, just as on land, a decline in diversity from the tropics to the poles is a feature of the marine environment, yet little is known about patterns of diversity in tropical/subtropical areas. Soft-sediment macrobenthos data from the entire Hong Kong waters (22degrees N, 113-114degrees E) were used to examine faunal patterns in a subtropical area. Grab samples were taken from a depth range of 5 to 47 m at 101 sites on a spatial sampling scale of 1100 km(2). A total of 386 species belonging to 12 phyla was recorded in 50.5 m(2) of sediment collected from the 1100 km2 sampling area. Species richness (alpha diversity) of the samples was low (mean 35 species) but highly variable (10 to 78 species). Relationships between community structure and environmental variables were weak. The number of rare species was high: 38% of the species were represented by 1 or 2 individuals, 45% were restricted to 1 or 2 sites, and no species spanned the whole sampling area. Polychaetes displayed the highest species richness, followed by molluscs and crustaceans. Molluscs were more restricted in their distribution than the other dominant groups, whereas polychaetes had the highest proportion of widespread species. Beta diversity, measured as Whittaker's beta(W) and Bray-Curtis similarity, was high. Beta diversity varied among the dominant groups and was highest for molluscs, followed by crustaceans and polychaetes. The faunal patterns changed with spatial scale. The study shows that patterns of diversity depend considerably on which element of biodiversity is measured.		Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, N-0316 Oslo, Norway; City Univ Hong Kong, Dept Biol & Chem, Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Ellingsen, KE] Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, PB 1064, N-0316 Oslo, Norway								43							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000223788100004		
J	Ricotta, C								Additive partition of parametric information and its associated β-diversity measure								ACTA BIOTHEORETICA				51	2			91	100		10.1023/A:1024539526618			2003	2003	A desirable property of a diversity index is strict concavity. This implies that the pooled diversity of a given community sample is greater than or equal to but not less than the weighted mean of the diversity values of the constituting plots. For a strict concave diversity index, such as species richness S, Shannon's entropy H or Simpson's index 1-D, the pooled diversity of a given community sample can be partitioned into two non-negative, additive components: average within-plot diversity and between-plot diversity. As a result, species diversity can be summarized at various scales measuring all diversity components in the same units. Conversely, violation of strict concavity would imply the non-interpretable result of a negative diversity among community plots. In this paper, I apply this additive partition model generally adopted for traditional diversity measures to Aczel and Daroczy's generalized entropy of type alpha. In this way, a parametric measure of beta-diversity is derived as the ratio between the pooled sample diversity and the average within-plot diversity that represents the parametric analogue of Whittaker's beta-diversity for data on species relative abundances.		Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, C] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								15							Mathematical & Computational Biology	WOS:000183903200002		
J	Ricotta, C; Avena, G								An information-theoretical measure of β-diversity								PLANT BIOSYSTEMS				137	1			57	61		10.1080/11263500312331351331			2003	2003	A measure of beta-diversity based on the distribution of Kullback's information-theoretical divergence of single plots from the pooled sample is proposed for data on species relative abundances. Unlike other indices explicitly developed to summarise plot-to-plot variability along an environmental gradient, the proposed measure provides meaningful estimates of beta-diversity independently of the presence of coenoclines. In the present study, a classical artificial data set is used to illustrate its application. Further, some analogies between the proposed measure and Whittaker's index of beta-diversity are discussed.		Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dipartimento Biol Vegetale, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, C] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dipartimento Biol Vegetale, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								5							Plant Sciences	WOS:000183563300007		
J	Nakanishi, K								Vegetational diversity of bryophyte communities in relation to environmental gradients								JOURNAL OF THE HATTORI BOTANICAL LABORATORY					92			211	224					AUG 2002	2002	A vegetational or beta diversity of epilithic, epigeous and epiphytic bryophyte communities was studied based on average turnover rate of species (ATR proposed by Itow in 1991) in relation to enviromental gradients. The epilithic bryophyte communities in Tomikawa-keikoku, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan were sampled at intervals of 2 m with the phytosociological method. The epigeous bryophyte communities in Iwato-jinjya, Nagasaki Pref, Japan were sampled at intervals of I m with the same investigation method as with epilithic communities. The epiphytic community analysis was based on data from Iwatsuki and Hattori (1956 a,b) in Wari'iwa, Miyazaki Pref, Japan. The beta diversity parameters calculated were ATR, IA (internal association), HC (Whittaker's half -change), and DR50, 80 and 95 (Distance range for 50, 80 and 95% change in species composition). The epilithic communities on bedrock of augitic andesite, the epigeous communities on substratum soil in the cave and the epiphytic communities on Cinnamomum japonicum Sieb., on Abies firma Sieb. et Zucc. and on Tsuga sieboldii Carr. were respectively, ATR=2.95, 5.97, 5.36, 1.94, 1.56, IA=83.8, 84.3, 78.2, 69.2, 69.2, HC=1.69, 1.81, 1.65, 1.34, 1.08. DR50=11.5m, 5.75m, 5.26m, 9.90m, 12.3m. DR80=21.6m, 10.8m, 10.9m, 24.4m, 31.5m. DR95=26.7m, 13.3m, 13.7m, 33.1m, 41.2m. The ATR values of bryophyte vegetation were positively correlated with the environmental gradients.		Nagasaki Univ, Inst Biol, Fac Environm Studies, Nagasaki 8528521, Japan; [Nakanishi, K] Nagasaki Univ, Inst Biol, Fac Environm Studies, Bunkyo Machi, Nagasaki 8528521, Japan								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000178352000010		
J	Ellingsen, KE; Gray, JS								Spatial patterns of benthic diversity: is there a latitudinal gradient along the Norwegian continental shelf?								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY				71	3			373	389		10.1046/j.1365-2656.2002.00606.x			MAY 2002	2002	1. We examined data on soft-sediment macrobenthos (organisms retained on a 1-mm, sieve) from a transect of c. 1960 km along the Norwegian continental shelf (56-71degreesN), covering a range of water depths (65-434 m) and varying sediment properties. 2. A total of 809 species was recorded from 101 sites. Of these, 36% were restricted to one or two sites, and 29% were represented by one or two individuals. No species spanned the entire transect. Polychaetes were the dominant taxonomic group, followed by crustaceans, molluscs and echinoderms. 3. Alpha diversity (sample species richness) was highly variable (35-148 species) but showed no evidence of a relationship to latitude or other environmental variables. 4. Beta diversity was measured as Whittaker's beta(W), the number of shared species, complementarity (biotic distinctness) and Bray-Curtis similarity, and there was no evidence of a latitudinal trend on the shelf. Beta diversity increased with the level of environmental variability, and was highest in the southern-central area, followed by the most northern area. Change in environmental variables had a stronger effect on beta diversity than spatial distance between sites. 5. Gamma diversity was computed by pooling samples over large areas. There was no convincing evidence of a latitudinal cline in gamma diversity, but gamma diversity increased with the level of environmental heterogeneity. Mean alpha diversity and gamma diversity were not significantly correlated. Whereas mean complementarity and mean Bray-Curtis similarity were related to gamma diversity, beta(w) was not.		Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, N-0316 Oslo, Norway; [Ellingsen, KE] Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, POB 1064, N-0316 Oslo, Norway								191							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000175536600001		
J	Ellingsen, KE								Soft-sediment benthic biodiversity on the continental shelf in relation to environmental variability								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				232				15	27		10.3354/meps232015			2002	2002	Soft-sediment macrobenthos data for the Norwegian continental shelf (61degreesN, 1 to 2degreesE) was used to examine species distributions, community structure and community differences, and how different measures of biodiversity are related to environmental variability. Water depth at 35 sites ranged from 115 to 331 m over a spatial sampling scale of ca. 45 km x 60 km, and there was considerable variation in sediment characteristics, Of a total of 508 recorded species, 39% were restricted to 1 or 2 sites, whereas only 3 species spanned the entire sampling area. Polychaetes were the most common and widespread taxonomic group; crustaceans and echinoderms were more restricted in their distributions than the other dominant groups. Whittaker's beta diversity measure (beta(W), extent of change in species composition among sites) was highest for those groups with the highest proportion of restricted-range species. The number of shared species, the complementarity (biotic distinctness), and the Bray-Curtis similarity between all pairwise combinations of sites (3 beta diversity measures) were more strongly related to change in environment (notably depth, followed by median grain size and silt-clay content) than to spatial distance between sites. Likewise, a multivariate analysis (BIO-ENV) identified these factors as the major environmental variables influencing the faunal patterns, whereas univariate measures of diversity were not related to depth or median grain size. Univariate measures of diversity, beta diversity measures, and BIO-ENV analyses showed that molluscs, followed by polychaetes, were most highly related to environmental variables. In this study, alpha, beta and gamma diversity were higher than in a study of a single soft-sediment habitat type in the southern part of the Norwegian continental shelf.		Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, N-0316 Oslo, Norway; [Ellingsen, KE] Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, POB 1064, N-0316 Oslo, Norway								181							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000176123900002		
J	Ricotta, C; Carranza, ML; Avena, G								Computing β-diversity from species-area curves								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				3	1			15	18		10.1078/1439-1791-00082			2002	2002	A measure of beta-diversity is proposed for equal-sized presence-absence vegetation sample plots. The method begins by computing the minimum variance unbiased estimator of the expected species richness E[S-n] as a function of sample size n for a set of N plots. Using a semilogarithmic relation, beta-diversity is then determined from the slope of the best fitting line of the E[S-n] vs. log n plot. beta-diversity is thus interpretable as the linear relation between expected species richness and log sample size. The method is illustrated using 15 square plots of 100 m(2) each from a Matorral community in the Arid Chaco of central Argentina. Further, some analogies between the proposed method and Whittaker's multiplicative model of beta-diversity are discussed.		Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; Univ Molise, Fac Math Phys & Nat Sci, Isernia, Italy; [Ricotta, C] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								55							Ecology	WOS:000174146500002		
J	Vellend, M								Do commonly used indices of β-diversity measure species turnover?								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				12	4			545	552		10.2307/3237006			AUG 2001	2001	Indices of beta -diversity are of two major types. (1) those that measure among-plot variability in species composition independently of the position of individual plots on spatial or environmental gradients, and (2) those that measure the extent of change in species composition along predefined gradients, i.e. species turnover. Failure to recognize this distinction can lead to the inappropriate use of some beta -diversity indices to measure species turnover. Several commonly-used indices of)beta -diversity are based on Whittaker's beta (W) (beta (W) = gamma/alpha, where gamma is the number of species in an entire study area and a is the number of species per plot within the study area). It is demonstrated that these indices do not take into account the distribution of species on spatial or environmental gradients, and should therefore not be used to measure species turnover. The terms 'beta -diversity' and 'species turnover' should not be used interchangeably. Species turnover can be measured using matrices of compositional similarity and physical or environmental distances among pairs of study plots. The use of indices of P-diversity and similarity-distance curves is demonstrated using simulated data sets.		Cornell Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA; [Vellend, M] Cornell Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA								200							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000171984200011		
J	Sweeney, BA; Cook, JE								A landscape-level assessment of understory diversity in upland forests of North-Central Wisconsin, USA								LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY				16	1			55	69		10.1023/A:1008157108667			JAN 2001	2001	The study measured landscape level diversity of the understory plants of mature, upland forests in north-central Wisconsin USA. Habitat types were used to segregate the landscape along a moisture-nutrient gradient. Forty sites that had closed canopies, had been undisturbed for at least 20 years, and were at least 8 ha in size were used. The percent cover of groundlayer species was ocularly estimated in 12-18 randomly located, one meter square plots in June and August, 1995. Shrub cover was estimated by the line intercept method. Alpha, beta and gamma diversity were determined for early and late summer periods separately. Gamma diversity was quantified using a new method, affinity analysis, which generates a list of modal and outlier sites and calculates mosaic diversity, a measure of landscape complexity. Generally, communities in the middle of the moisture-nutrient gradient were modal, whereas those at the mesic end of the gradient were outlier. Mosaic diversity values were very similar for early summer and late summer (2.88 +/-0.04, 2.95 +/-0.03, respectively), but was much higher for both periods combined (3.95 +/-0.07). Whittaker's Index (beta diversity) revealed varying rates of species turnover along presumed moisture and nutrient gradients, whereas species densities and richness were relatively constant among habitat types. A one-way analysis of variance of Shannon-Weaver values found no significant differences among habitat types (p greater than or equal to0.05). Regional diversity mainly resulted from high beta values which appears to be primarily a function of the moisture gradient. The other factors influencing compositional differences among sites are variation in site history, especially disturbance, with niche partitioning and differences in seed dispersal capacity having a minor influence. The affinity analysis method indicated that sampling once per season is inadequate, and that many types of sites are modal. This method for estimating gamma (landscape) diversity shows considerable promise, but information on the processes that produce outlier sites is needed to fully understand and use the results of this method.		Univ Wisconsin, Coll Nat Resources, Stevens Point, WI 54481 USA; [Cook, JE] Univ Wisconsin, Coll Nat Resources, Stevens Point, WI 54481 USA								8							Ecology; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000167389900005		
J	Ellingsen, KE								Biodiversity of a continental shelf soft-sediment macrobenthos community								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				218				1	15		10.3354/meps218001			2001	2001	Soft-sediment macrobenthos data from the southern part of the Norwegian continental shelf was used to study faunal patterns and spatial variability, and to evaluate different measures of marine biodiversity. Water depth and sediment characteristics were remarkably uniform over the spatial sampling scale of 130 x 70 km, and relations between measured environmental variables and community structure were weak. Out of 175 recorded species, 10 % spanned the entire sampling area (16 sites), while 27 % were restricted to a single site. The number of rare species was positively correlated with species richness. Common species were widely spatially distributed, while species of low abundance had strongly compressed range sizes. The distribution of species varied among the 4 dominant taxonomic groups: the polychaetes, crustaceans, molluscs, and echinoderms, Polychaetes were the most common taxonomic group and had the highest proportion of widespread species. Whittaker's beta diversity measure (beta (W), extent of change in species composition among sites) varied among the dominant taxonomic groups and was highest for crustaceans, followed by molluscs. Neither the number of shared species nor the complementarity (biotic distinctness) between all pairwise permutations of sites was linked to spatial distance. However, the Bray-Curtis similarity between all pairwise combinations of sites was a function of spatial arrangement and was the most sensitive measure of beta diversity. Faunal pattern changed across the study area, despite the uniform habitat. Furthermore, faunal pattern and variability changed with scales. The measurement of biodiversity is therefore dependent on spatial scale, and cross-scale studies are important. The abstract concept of biodiversity as the 'variety of life' cannot be encapsulated by a single measure, Distributions of species and community differences should be taken into account in addition to species diversity when measuring marine biodiversity and planning conservation areas, and more than 1 taxonomic group should be studied in a system.		Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, N-0316 Oslo, Norway; [Ellingsen, KE] Univ Oslo, Dept Biol, Sect Marine Zool & Marine Chem, POB 1064,Blindern, N-0316 Oslo, Norway								94							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000171132300001		
J	Ali, MM; Dickinson, G; Murphy, KJ								Predictors of plant diversity in a hyperarid desert wadi ecosystem								JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS				45	3			215	230		10.1006/jare.2000.0631			JUL 2000	2000	The aim of this study was to identify trends in plant diversity, and examine their predictive relationships with environmental variables (water stress, sail texture and grazing intensity) and Vegetation characteristics (total vegetation and individual species cover), along a 340 km transect through an area of hyper-arid desert in southern Egypt. The major part of the transect is located within the boundaries of the Wadi Allaqi Man and Biosphere (MAB) Reserve. In total 55 plant species were recorded from the transect. A TWINSPAN classification of the data identified four of the seven main vegetation types, previously identified as present in the area by Springuel et al. (1997). Sites dominated by Vegetation type I occurred exclusively in the lowest stretch of the Wadi Allaqi system, most heavily influenced by flood and seepage from Lake Nasser, and characterized by dense stands of Tamarix nilotica (Ehrenb.) Bunge and Glinus lotoides L. Vegetation type IIIb was represented at sites higher up the wadi system, characterized by sparser vegetation dominated by Acacia ehrenbergiana Hayne, Acacia tortilis subsp. raddiana (Savi) Brenan and Aerva javanica (Burm. f.) Juss.ex Schult. Vegetation type IIIa occurred in the middle region of Wadi Allaqi and was characterized by Salsola imbricata Forssk. and Cullen plicatum (Delile) C. H. Stirt. Vegetation type IV, the most species rich, was limited to upstream sites of Wadis Allaqi and Eiqat. Plant beta-diversity las species turnover between individual sites along the transect, assessed using Whittaker's beta(w) index) showed a rising trend of plant species turnover from sites low in the wadi system to sites located in the upper part of the wadi. Plant alpha-diversity within these vegetation types (as species richness R: number of species present per 500 m(2) unit area) was linearly correlated with plant diversity measured using Simpson's index (D). R was reasonably well predicted from three variables: plant cover, soil moisture and grazing intensity (following a third order polynomial model). This model predicted R in the original data set with 52.9% success ( r = 0.73, p < 0.001). The study suggested that vegetation cover estimates, in association with simple estimates of intensity of habitat stress (water availability) and disturbance (grazing intensity), can provide a rapid indication of the biodiversity support capacity of desert habitats. (C) 2000 Academic Press.		S Valley Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Aswan 81528, Egypt; Univ Glasgow, Dept Geog & Topog Sci, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Lanark, Scotland; Univ Glasgow, Inst Biomed & Life Sci, Div Environm & Evolutionary Biol, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Lanark, Scotland; [Ali, MM] S Valley Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Aswan 81528, Egypt								31							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000088710400004		
J	Pharo, EJ; Beattie, AJ; Binns, D								Vascular plant diversity as a surrogate for bryophyte and lichen diversity								CONSERVATION BIOLOGY				13	2			282	292		10.1046/j.1523-1739.1999.013002282.x			APR 1999	1999	An important issue in conservation biology is the extent to which one group of organisms can function as a surrogate for less well-known groups. We explored the extent to which vascular plant species diversity (both alpha-diversity, or species richness, and beta-diversity, or turnover) and the subgroups of understory, overstory, and ferns can act as surrogates for bryophyte and lichen species diversity. We surveyed 35 sites in a range of forest types in the coastal lowlands of eastern Australia. Fern species richness was strongly positively correlated with bryophyte species richness all varied significantly with time since fire, vascular plant cover, and topographic position gradients. Of the other vascular plant groups, the only significant correlation was between overstory and bryophyte species richness. We quantified species turnover using modifications of Whittaker's original measure as well as multivariate techniques. The rate of lichen species turnover was the lowest of all six groups investigated. The other five groups had similar rates of species turnover, although the results were different depending on the emphasis of the measure used. There were significant correlations between the patterns of species turnover of bryophytes and lichens and those of all four vascular plant groups, but none of the correlations was particularly strong. The understory and all vascular plants were the best predictors of the species turnover pattern of bryophytes and lichens, and correlations appeared strongest in wet sclerophyll sites. With respect to management practices, time since the last fire appears to be an important determinant of bryophyte, lichen, and vascular plant diversity, and logging appears to differentially affect the diversity of the different plant categories. A mosaic of logging and fire intervals and intensities appears to be important for maintaining regional diversity.		Macquarie Univ, Sch Biol Sci, N Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia; State Forest New S Wales, Div Res, Ecol Sect, W Pennant Hills, NSW 2125, Australia; [Pharo, EJ] Univ Alberta, G-208 Biol Sci, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E9, Canada								134							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000079472000012		
