PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Abdullo, Madaminov; Sino, Yusupov; Fan, Lianlian								Nutrient addition alters plant community productivity but not the species diversity of a mountain meadow in Tajikistan								FRONTIERS IN PLANT SCIENCE				14						1235388	10.3389/fpls.2023.1235388			JAN 15 2024	2024	Introduction: Tajikistan is a typical mountainous country covered by different mountain grasslands that are important pasture resources. Recently, grassland degradation has become widespread due to climate change and human activities and fertilization has been used to improve grassland production. However, fertilizer inputs can substantially alter species diversity, but it is uncl\ear how productivity and species diversity respond to nutrient enrichment in the mountain meadows of Tajikistan. Methods: Therefore, a 5-year (2018-2022) continuous in-situ mineral fertilizer experiment was conducted to examine the effects of three nitrogen (N) levels (0, 30, and 90 kg N ha(-1) year(-1)), two phosphorus (P) levels (0 and 30 kg P ha(-1) year(-1)), and their combinations on above-ground biomass (AGB) and species diversity in a mountain meadow grassland in Ziddi, Varzob region, Tajikistan. Five species diversity metrics-Margalef's species richness (D-ma), the Shannon-Wiener index (H), the Simpson index (C), Pielou's equitability index (E-pi), and the Evar Species Evenness index (E-var)-were used to measure species diversity. Results and discussions: The results indicated that the addition of different N and P amounts and their various combinations considerably increased both total and dominant species AGB, with the highest increase occurring in the N90P30 (90 kg N ha(-1) year(-1) combined with 30 kg P ha(-1) year(-1)) treatment in 2022; during the experiment, the importance value of Prangos pabularia (dominant species) first decreased and then increased, but its dominant status did not change or fluctuate among the years. Furthermore, N, P, and their different combinations had no significant effect on species diversity (D-ma, H, C, E-pi, and E-var). All the species diversity indexes fluctuated among years, but there was no interaction with mineral fertilizer addition. Total AGB had a negative relationship with species diversity and low concentration N fertilizer addition (N30; P30) strengthened this negative trend. However, this trend decreased under the high N fertilizer condition (N90P30). Overall, nutrient addition to the natural mountain grassland of the Varzob region improved AGB, which meant that there was more forage for local animals. Mineral fertilizers had no significant effect on species diversity, but may enhance P. pabularia dominance in the future, which will help maintain the stability of the plant community and improve the quality of the forage because P. pabularia is an excellent and important winter fodder. Our study suggests that scientific nutrient management could effectively promote grassland production, conserve plant variety, and regenerate degraded grassland, which will counteract the desertification process in northwest Tajikistan mountain meadows.		[Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, State Key Lab Desert & Oasis Ecol, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming] Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Dushanbe, Tajikistan; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Abdullo, Madaminov; Sino, Yusupov] Inst Bot Physiol & Plant Genet, Acad Sci Republ Tajikistan, Dushanbe, Tajikistan; [Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, State Key Lab Desert & Oasis Ecol, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Fan, Lianlian] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:001150746000001		
J	Pokhrel, Niraj; Timilsina, Sachin; Awasthi, Nripesh; Adhikari, Anita; Adhikari, Bikash; Ayer, Santosh; Bhatta, Kishor Prasad								Implications of irregular shelterwood system on regeneration and species diversity of Sal (Shorea robusta Gaertn. f.) forest in Nepal								HELIYON				10	1					e23156	10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e23156			JAN 15 2024	2024	Silvicultural systems are essential for effective forest management and utilize the resources by conserving biodiversity, health, and valuable services forests offer to society. However, Nepal faces a significant knowledge gap due to the limited data on the effect of silvicultural systems and forest management practices on tree diversity and regeneration. Therefore, this study was conducted to assess the effects of canopy opening on natural regeneration and species diversity of Sal (Shorea robusta Gaertn. f.) forest in comparison to managed and control blocks in the southern plains of Nepal under irregular shelterwood systems. The vegetation sampling was carried out by the quadrat method (plot of 10 m* 10 m) for studying 48 plots in both managed and control forest areas. The Shannon-Wiener Index and the Simpson Index were used to measure species diversity, whereas Margalef's index was used to measure species richness. Dominant tree species in both managed and control forest areas were identified through the Important Value Index (IVI). The seedling and sapling density of Sal was found to be significantly higher (p < 0.05) in managed blocks. Seedlings of Sal from the seed origin were notably more abundant in the managed block (p < 0.01), whereas those from coppice origin exhibited higher numbers in the control block (p < 0.01). Sal was found to be dominant species in both managed block (IVI = 199.94) and control (IVI = 108.34). The species diversity and richness were significantly declining in the managed forest (p < 0.01) with higher species dominance in comparison to the control blocks. Our study found a positive correlation of canopy cover with species diversity (r = 0.69, p < 0.01) and richness (r = 0.59, p < 0.01) whereas a negative correlation with seedling (r = -0.43, p < 0.01) and sapling density (r = -0.16, p < 0.01). The application of the irregular shelterwood system in study area has effectively promoted natural Sal regeneration while concurrently reducing species diversity. To strike a balance between timber production and biodiversity conservation in these forests, further research focusing on moderating felling intensity within the irregular shelterwood system is strongly recommended.		[Pokhrel, Niraj; Timilsina, Sachin; Adhikari, Bikash] Tribhuvan Univ, Inst Forestry, Pokhara Campus, Pokhara 33700, Nepal; [Awasthi, Nripesh] Minist Ind Tourism Forest & Environm, Kailali, Sudurpaschim, Nepal; [Adhikari, Anita] Tribhuvan Univ, Inst Forestry, Hetauda Campus, Makwanpur 44107, Nepal; [Ayer, Santosh] Agr & Forestry Univ, Coll Nat Resource Management CNRM, Katari 56310, Nepal; [Bhatta, Kishor Prasad] Res & Dev Ctr, Kathmandu 44600, Nepal; [Timilsina, Sachin] Tribhuvan Univ, Inst Forestry, Pokhara Campus, Pokhara 33700, Nepal								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001134731100001		
J	Mohanty, Trupti Rani; Tiwari, Nitish Kumar; Das, Basanta Kumar; Swain, Himanshu Sekhar; Jhonson, Canciyal; Banerjee, Tanushree								Riverine connectivity influences the phytoplankton ecology in the open floodplain wetland of the lower river Ganga								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	12					1403	10.1007/s10661-023-11983-3			DEC 2023	2023	The river Ganga has several floodplain wetlands that support its ecology and ecosystem. Phytoplankton is an important component of the aquatic ecosystem, which plays an important role as a bioindicator for the assessment of aquatic health. The present study was conducted between 2018 and 2019 to understand the seasonal variation in the phytoplankton diversity of the Charaganga wetland and, parallelly, in the river Ganga in Nabadweep, India. The study explains how riverine connectivity affects the structure of the algal community in the wetland ecosystem. In the study, it has been observed that in the wetland, maximum mean phytoplankton density was noticed during pre-monsoon, i.e., 4079 unit l(-1) followed by post-monsoon 3812 unit l(-1) and monsoon 550 unit l(-1), respectively. In the river system, the phytoplankton density varied from 78 unit l(-1) to 653 unit l(-1) seasonally, i.e., highest during monsoon and lowest during pre-monsoon. In both the ecosystems, i.e., wetland and river, the supreme influential group was Cyanophyceae followed by diatoms. One-way ANOVA showed a significant variation (p > 0.05) of three algal groups of phytoplankton (Bacillariophyceae, Coscinodiscophyceae, Chlorophyceae) in the river, while in the wetland, no significant variation (p > 0.05) was found among the other algal groups. The observed higher Shannon and Margalef's species richness value in the wetland was observed than in the river defines the significance and importance of the wetland ecosystem, which may support the growth and conservation of various aquatic organisms as well. The study highlighted that the influencing abiotic factors like water temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and nutrients have affected the phytoplankton community in both the water bodies, i.e., wetland and river. We concluded that river connectivity is required to restore the biotic flora of the wetland ecosystem.		[Mohanty, Trupti Rani; Tiwari, Nitish Kumar; Das, Basanta Kumar; Jhonson, Canciyal; Banerjee, Tanushree] Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, ICAR, Kolkata 700120, India; [Swain, Himanshu Sekhar] Cent Inst Freshwater Aquaculture, ICAR, Bhubaneswar 751002, India; [Das, Basanta Kumar] Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, ICAR, Kolkata 700120, India								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001098035600002		
J	Das, Sarita Kumari; Srinivasan, Nagesh Talagunda; Sarang, Niranjan; Das, Sudhir Kumar; Jawahar, Abraham Thangapalam; Canciyal, Johnson; Panda, Kamalesh								Effect of environmental drivers of fish assemblage and diversity patterns in temporal scale in Mongra Reservoir: A case study from one of the tributaries of Mahanadi Basin, Central India								ECOHYDROLOGY				16	8						10.1002/eco.2599			DEC 2023	2023	Influence of seasonal variations in environmental parameters on fish assemblage and species diversity patterns was studied in a tropical reservoir of Central India during March 2021 to February 2022. A total of 41 species belonging to 7 orders, 15 families and 29 genera were recorded with highest diversity during post-monsoon season compared to the pre-monsoon season and monsoon season. The fish abundance similarity between the monsoon and post-monsoon reached a maximum of 89%. Seasonal variations in the mean species abundance, Simpson dominance index, Shannon diversity index, Pielou's evenness index and Margalef's richness index were determined. One-way ANOVA revealed a significant difference (P < 0.05) at the temporal scale. There was a significant seasonal difference in species abundance (P = 0.0006) and evenness index (P = 0.02) among the diversity indices. During the study period, three 'vulnerable' species, three 'near threatened' species and two 'endangered' species were caught. Carnivore dominance was evident throughout the year in the trophic guild of fishes. The Pearson correlation test revealed that water pH, dissolved oxygen, sediment organic carbon and clay percentage were positively correlated to all four diversity indices. Simpson and Margalef species richness diversity indices were positively correlated to sediment pH. Fish abundance was positively associated with sediment pH, silt, phosphorus and nitrogen content. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to investigate the relationships between fish assemblages and environmental conditions. Among the 19 physicochemical parameters, nine (dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, conductivity, transparency, hardness, phosphate and chlorophyll-a, sediment nitrogen and phosphorus) characteristics were shown to be statistically significant (P < 0.05) in determining fish diversity. Dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, conductivity, transparency, hardness, phosphate and chlorophyll-a of water and sediment nitrogen and phosphorus qualities were the key factors for the species abundance. The reservoir boasts a diverse fish population that allows multi-species fishing and generates revenue for numerous local fishers. Fish habitats should be protected in order to maintain diversity and long-term ecological benefits.		[Das, Sarita Kumari; Srinivasan, Nagesh Talagunda; Das, Sudhir Kumar] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Fisheries Resource Management, Kolkata 700037, India; [Sarang, Niranjan; Panda, Kamalesh] DSVC Kamdhenu Vishwavidyalaya, Coll Fisheries, Durg, Chhattisgarh, India; [Jawahar, Abraham Thangapalam] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Aquat Anim Hlth, Kolkata, India; [Canciyal, Johnson] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Das, Sarita Kumari] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Fisheries Resource Management, Kolkata 700037, India								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001103554900001		
J	Feng, Yuan; Chai, Yong; Qin, Yangping; Li, Guixiang; He, Liping; Zhang, Zhenghai; Wu, Li; Meng, Guangtao								Plant functional traits and tree size inequality improved individual tree height prediction of mid-montane humid evergreen broad-leaved forests in southwest China								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				551						121526	10.1016/j.foreco.2023.121526			JAN 1 2024	2024	Tree height and diameter at breast height (DBH) are key survey factors in forest inventory. Compared to measuring DBH, the process of measuring tree height is time-consuming, labor-intensive and costly, especially in natural mixed forests. Tree height is therefore commonly predicted using height-diameter (H-D) models. Nevertheless, developing H-D models for natural mixed forests are hampered by the large diversity of tree species and the small number of rare tree species observed. In this study, a nonlinear mixed effects H-D model was established for a mid-montane humid evergreen broad-leaved forest in southwest China. For this purpose, we classified tree species by K-means clustering according to the specific plant functional traits. Data were collected from 5, 737 trees in 100 subplots with 86 species. The results revealed that the nonlinear mixed effects model of tree height accounted for 75% of the variation in tree height without significant heteroscedasticity, and that the model parameters had biological significance. In the 10-fold cross validation, no clear fluctuation in the model evaluation metrics was observed, indicating the absence of overfitting in the model. Of the 15 stand variables, dominant height (Hd) and Margalef's index of DBH (DMg), which contributed the most to the height-diameter model, were selected to expand the model. Our findings suggest that tree height increased with increasing values of Hd and DMg, and vice versa. This study highlights the feasibility of categorizing natural mixed forests by utilizing plant functional traits and the influential role of tree size inequality on tree height variation.		[Feng, Yuan; Chai, Yong; Li, Guixiang; He, Liping; Zhang, Zhenghai; Wu, Li; Meng, Guangtao] Yunnan Acad Forestry & Grassland, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Feng, Yuan; Chai, Yong; Li, Guixiang; He, Liping; Zhang, Zhenghai; Wu, Li; Meng, Guangtao] Yunnan Key Lab Biodivers Gaoligong Mt, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Feng, Yuan; Chai, Yong; Li, Guixiang; He, Liping; Zhang, Zhenghai; Wu, Li; Meng, Guangtao] Gaoligong Mt Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res Stn Yun, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Qin, Yangping] Natl Forestry & Grassland Adm, Southwest Survey & Planning Inst, Kunming 650031, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Qin, Yangping] Chinese Acad Forestry, Inst Forest Resource Informat Tech, Key Lab Forest Management & Growth Modelling, Natl Forestry & Grassland Adm, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Meng, Guangtao] Yunnan Acad Forestry & Grassland, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Meng, Guangtao] Yunnan Key Lab Biodivers Gaoligong Mt, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Meng, Guangtao] Gaoligong Mt Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res Stn Yun, Kunming 650201, Yunnan, Peoples R China								0							Forestry	WOS:001108760800001		
J	Li, Di; Liang, Longfei; Dong, Qidi; Wang, Ruijue; Xu, Tao; Qu, Ling; Wu, Zhiwei; Lyu, Bingyang; Liu, Shiliang; Chen, Qibing								Significant Dynamic Disturbance of Water Environment Quality in Urban Rivers Flowing through Industrial Areas								WATER				15	20					3640	10.3390/w15203640			OCT 2023	2023	The urban water environment is seriously affected by human activities. Rivers in highly industrialized areas, which often carry various types of industrial pollutants, such as metals and nutrients, are especially affected. In this study, the water quality of the Pi River, an industrial base that flows through Chengdu, a large city in Southwest China, was tested for one year. Heavy metal concentrations in the water, sediment, and macrobenthic and algal communities in the river were examined. The water pollution index (WPI) and trophic level index (TLI) were employed to measure the water pollution degree and eutrophication status, respectively. The Shannon-Wiener index (H') and Margalef's index (dM) were determined to represent the diversity and richness of macroinvertebrates. The principal component analysis (PCA) was employed to define the main heavy metal influencing factors in the Pi River. Our study showed that the eutrophication status increased with spatial change, and the eutrophication status was the most serious in the downstream reach, which was moderately eutrophic. The water body of the Pi River was seriously polluted by heavy metals, and the content of chromium (Cr) in the sediment and cadmium (Cd) in the water/sediment was far beyond the prescribed limit. In addition, we found that Cd had a serious impact on both the benthic and algal communities, and the benthic community structure was completely changed, destroying the original aquatic environment. We explored the mechanisms of the influence of Cd on aquatic fauna, and this information is of great significance for the future conservation of industrial urban rivers. In this study, the spatial-temporal variations in water quality and aquatic communities revealed the pollution status of a river flowing through industrial areas, which provided a basis for future river conservation and restoration.		[Li, Di; Liang, Longfei; Xu, Tao; Qu, Ling] Hubei Key Lab Resource & Ecol Environm Geol, Wuhan 430034, Peoples R China; [Li, Di; Liang, Longfei; Xu, Tao; Qu, Ling] Geophys Explorat Brigade Hubei Geol Bur, Wuhan 430100, Peoples R China; [Li, Di; Dong, Qidi; Lyu, Bingyang; Liu, Shiliang; Chen, Qibing] Sichuan Agr Univ, Coll Landscape Architecture, Chengdu 611130, Peoples R China; [Dong, Qidi] Xihua Univ, Sch Art & Design, Chengdu 610039, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ruijue] Chengdu Polytech, Tourism Sch, Chengdu 610093, Peoples R China; [Wu, Zhiwei] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Fac Engn, Wuhan 430100, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shiliang] Sichuan Yuze Xscape Landscape Planning & Design Co, Chengdu 610093, Peoples R China; [Lyu, Bingyang; Liu, Shiliang] Sichuan Agr Univ, Coll Landscape Architecture, Chengdu 611130, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shiliang] Sichuan Yuze Xscape Landscape Planning & Design Co, Chengdu 610093, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001093705100001		
J	Alghanem, S. M. S.; Alhaithloul, H. A. S.								SPECIES DIVERSITY AND FLORISTIC COMPOSITION OF RAWDHAT ABALWOROOD VEGETATION IN AL-ASYAH, AL- QASSIM REGION, SAUDI ARABIA								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH								4703	4719		10.15666/aeer/2105_47034719				2023	Rawdhat Abalworood in Al-Qassim region of Saudi Arabia is one of the most important rawdhats of this area. The present study provides insight of vegetation types, life forms, as well as floristic categories and species distribution, highlighting the ecological factors that influence species distribution. A total of 44 species representing 19 families of vascular plants were recorded. The dominating groups were Asteraceae and Brassicaceae, and the dominant life forms were therophytes and chamaephytes, displaying a typical desert life-form range. Two of the eighteen studied sites had the maximum species richness value of 15 species per plot. Five of the 18 sites studied had the lowest species richness assessing of 10 species per plot. The most frequent life form classes observed in Rawdhat Abalworood, Al-Asyah, Al-Qassim region were Therophytes (Th) and Chamaephytes (Ch), with 65.91% and 15.91%, respectively. Chorological analysis exhibited Saharo-Sindian (SA-SI) and Irano-Turanian-Saharo-Sindian (IR-TR+SASI) represented by 20.45% and 18.18, respectively. Chronologically, surveyed plant species were recognized into three categories; mono regional, bi regional, and pluri regional. The three chorological categories were represented by 31.81%, 50.0%, and 18.18%; respectively. Species diversity in terms of Margalef's diversity index (Figure 6A) ranged between 1.6 to 2.6 with an average of 2.1 to 0.3, Shannon-Weiner diversity index (Figure 6D) showed close diversity levels as Margalef's and ranged between 1.6 to 2.4 with an average of 2.1. Using CCA multivariate analysis effect of 6 environmental factors is distinguished upon vegetation. The CCA ordination revealed that the separation of Vegetation group III along the axis was influenced by Silt, WHC, OM, OC, and Clay, whereas VG II was substantially related to sand%.		[Alghanem, S. M. S.] Qassim Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Biol, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia; [Alhaithloul, H. A. S.] Jouf Univ, Coll Sci, Biol Dept, Sakaka 2014, Saudi Arabia; [Alhaithloul, H. A. S.] Jouf Univ, Coll Sci, Biol Dept, Sakaka 2014, Saudi Arabia								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:001092169200001		
J	He, Shan; Xu, Jijun; Yi, Yujun; Zhang, Enze								Variations in Aquatic Vegetation Diversity Responses to Water Level Sequences during Drought in Lakes under Uncertain Conditions								WATER				15	13					2395	10.3390/w15132395			JUL 2023	2023	Water level variability and temporal change are critical for shaping the structure of aquatic vegetation. Much research has examined the response of aquatic vegetation to hydrological metrics. However, the hydrological sequence is a fundamental driver of aquatic ecosystem structure and function. Given the aleatory uncertainty of future water levels under an unstable climate, how aquatic vegetation responds to changing dynamics in hydrological processes, especially shifting water level sequences, remains insufficiently explored. In this paper, we establish an evaluation framework to study the response of vegetation diversity to variation in water level sequences during a drought event. To do this, the uncertainty and variability of water level processes are both considered. Altering water level processes was achieved using two types of scenarios in order to explore the effects of differing water level sequences (i.e., changing the order of high vs. low water levels) on the probability distribution of four indexes of aquatic plant diversity (e.g., Margalef's, Simpson's, Shannon's, and Pielou's evenness index). Our results show that altering the order of water level state can lead to differences in the diversity of aquatic vegetation, with a pronounced impact on vegetation complexity. This suggests that the specific sequence of water level events is critical for shaping aquatic vegetation structure. In addition, we found that a uniform distribution of water level state is beneficial for enhancing a species' dominance in aquatic vegetation. Our findings provide guidance for improving the future development of freshwater ecosystem protection and lake management.		[He, Shan; Xu, Jijun] Changjiang Water Resources Commiss, Changjiang River Sci Res Inst, 23 Huangpu Rd, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Hydraul Engn, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [He, Shan; Xu, Jijun] Hubei Key Lab Water Resources & Ecoenvironm Sci, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [Yi, Yujun] Beijing Normal Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Water Environm Simulat, 19 Xinjiekouwai St, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Enze] Beijing Univ Technol, Fac Architecture Civil & Transportat Engn, Beijing 100124, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Changjiang Water Resources Commiss, Changjiang River Sci Res Inst, 23 Huangpu Rd, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Hydraul Engn, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Hubei Key Lab Water Resources & Ecoenvironm Sci, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001028549000001		
J	Mehal, Kulwinder Kaur; Sharma, Aditi; Kaur, Amarpreet; Kalia, Neha; Kohli, Ravinder Kumar; Singh, Harminder Pal; Batish, Daizy R.								Modelling the ecological impact of invasive weed <i>Verbesina encelioides</i> on vegetation composition across dryland ecosystems of Punjab, northwestern India								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	6					725	10.1007/s10661-023-11299-2			JUN 2023	2023	Events of climate change have led to increased aridification, which alters local vegetation patterns and results in the invasion of opportunistic species. Though many studies assess the impact of invasive weeds and aridification at the agronomic level, studies investigating changes in local vegetation are severely lacking. We investigated the impact of the invasive plant Verbesina encelioides (Asteraceae) on the local vegetation composition across different dryland ecosystems in Punjab, northwestern India. Based on the aridity index for the period of 1991-2016, three major dryland ecosystems, i.e., arid, semi-arid, and sub-humid, were found in Punjab. The impact of V. encelioides on local biodiversity was measured in terms of species diversity (using Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's dominance index, Hill's evenness index, and Margalef's richness index), species composition (using non-metric multidimensional scaling based on Bray-Curtis's dissimilarity index), and species proportion in the two invasion classes (uninvaded and invaded) and across the three aridity zones (arid, semi-arid, and sub-humid). The vegetation survey depicted the presence of 53 flowering species belonging to 22 families, including 30 exotics and 23 natives. Verbesina encelioides decreased species diversity and proportion, with a more pronounced impact in arid and semi-arid ecosystems. In contrast, species composition varied between uninvaded and invaded classes only in arid ecosystems. Ecological parameters derived from population statistics (number of individuals) were more drastically affected than those from species abundance data. Since the ecological impacts of V. encelioides were manifested with increased aridification, it is a matter of apprehension under the potential climate change scenario.		[Mehal, Kulwinder Kaur; Sharma, Aditi; Kaur, Amarpreet; Kalia, Neha; Batish, Daizy R.] Panjab Univ, Dept Bot, Chandigarh 160014, India; [Kohli, Ravinder Kumar] Amity Univ, Int Airport Rd Sect 82A, Mohali 140306, Punjab, India; [Singh, Harminder Pal] Panjab Univ, Dept Environm Studies, Chandigarh 160014, India; [Singh, Harminder Pal] Panjab Univ, Dept Environm Studies, Chandigarh 160014, India								2							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000995363900005		
J	Semere, Tesfakiros; Fjellheim, Siri; Tsehaye, Yemane; Westengen, Ola T.								Inventory of on-farm sorghum landrace diversity and climate adaptation in Tigray, Northern Ethiopia: implications for sorghum breeding and conservation								GENETIC RESOURCES AND CROP EVOLUTION				70	8			2755	2772		10.1007/s10722-023-01604-w			DEC 2023	2023	The study was conducted with the aim of inventorying and assessing the level of sorghum landraces richness, estimating the extent and patterns of phenotypic diversity, identifying race type, and predicting suitable areas of production using future climate scenarios in Tigray, Northern Ethiopia. Overall, 358 landraces from 125 independent farmers' fields in 20 districts belonging to four zones of Tigray were surveyed. Landraces richness, frequency of character states, and diversity levels were estimated via Margalef's, Menhinick's and Shannon-Weaver (H ') indices for each zone and altitude classes. Suitable areas for sorghum cultivation in the future were predicted using DIVA-GIS. Altogether, 140 distinctly named landraces were identified and collected. Southern zone has the highest richness (D-Mg = 10.74, D-Mn = 5.0) followed by central (D-Mg = 8.54, D-Mn = 3.80). The estimated H ' for the phenotypic character states ranged from 0.24 (seed form) to 0.95 (rachis branch length). Highest diversity estimate was found in northwest (H ' = 0.71) followed by central zone (H ' = 0.64). Respectively, H ' was 0.70, 0.68, and 0.61 in lowland, intermediate, and highland elevations. In general, lowlands of northwest, central, and southern zones are identified as potential sites for germplasm conservation and utilization. The races durra, bicolor, caudatum, and durra-bicolor were found with durra as the dominant race (79%). All the currently surveyed areas and many other sites in Tigray are predicted to be suitable for future sorghum production under the changing climate scenario. Copies of all the 358 sorghum landraces are deposited in the national gene bank for use in future sorghum breeding work. The wealth of sorghum landraces diversity could be used in sorghum improvement programs.		[Semere, Tesfakiros] Mekelle Univ, Dept Biotechnol, Mekelle, Ethiopia; [Semere, Tesfakiros; Fjellheim, Siri] Norwegian Univ Life Sci NMBU, Dept Plant Sci IPV, As, Norway; [Tsehaye, Yemane] Mekelle Univ, Dept Dryland Crops & Hort Sci, Mekelle, Ethiopia; [Westengen, Ola T.] Norwegian Univ Life Sci NMBU, Dept Int Environm & Dev Studies Noragr, As, Norway; [Westengen, Ola T.] Norwegian Univ Life Sci NMBU, Dept Int Environm & Dev Studies Noragr, As, Norway								1							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000996918200001		
J	Yucedag, Cengiz; Asik, Yasin								Association between socioeconomic status and woody plant diversity in neighborhood parks								URBAN ECOSYSTEMS				26	4			1071	1080		10.1007/s11252-023-01366-4			AUG 2023	2023	Parks play an important role in sustaining the urban ecosystem owing to their plant diversity. Therefore, identification of plant composition in parks has contributed to better their planning and management. In this study, woody plant species in a total of 53 parks of the selected 15 neighborhoods in Burdur were explored, plant diversity indexes were calculated and correlations of the attributes of plants and parks with the socioeconomic status of the neighborhoods were analyzed. A total of 36 family, 85 genus and 127 species were recorded. Neighborhood parks had more than 50% exotic species. Neighborhood parks with higher socioeconomic status had higher numbers of species and invasive species. The pattern from the similarity analysis supported the correlation between the number of species and socioeconomic status. Park area had a positive and strong correlation with the attributes and diversity indexes of plant. Moreover, distance from the park to the city center had negative and strong correlation with plant attributes and Shannon diversity and Margalef's Richness Indexes. Albeit the large number of exotic species in neighborhood parks, the native species in the establishment of neighborhood parks should be actually preferred in terms of adaptation to the climate change. Furthermore, park management should consider the opinions of the people in the neighborhood instead of just making their own decisions in order to increase the park use. Further studies are needed including a broader range of socioeconomic variables to draw deeper conclusions about drivers of plant diversity of neighborhood parks.		[Yucedag, Cengiz; Asik, Yasin] Burdur Mehmet Akif Ersoy Univ, Dept Landscape Architecture, TR-15030 Burdur, Turkiye; [Yucedag, Cengiz] Burdur Mehmet Akif Ersoy Univ, Dept Landscape Architecture, TR-15030 Burdur, Turkiye								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Urban Studies	WOS:000983870600002		
J	Shetty, Karunya; Gulimane, Krishnakumar								Application of microalgal diversity in assessing the water quality of freshwater ponds								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	5					595	10.1007/s10661-023-11116-w			MAY 2023	2023	The health of an ecosystem can be evaluated based on its ecological characteristics and intrinsic biological quality. Furthermore, as nutrients are easily accessible by the algal cells in an aquatic ecosystem, the biochemical composition of an algal cell also varies accordingly with the ecological condition of its habitat. This study was carried out to understand the impact of seasonal variation of physicochemical parameters on the microalgal diversity and composition of five freshwater ponds in Mangalore, India. The diversity indices, viz. Shannon's (0.88-3.42), Margalef's (0.16-3.6), and Simpson's dominance index (0.47-0.96), were analyzed using PAST. A prominent variation in both the abundance and diversity of species was observed during the study period. About 150 species of algae belonging to Cyanophyceae, Chlorophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Euglenophyceae, Xanthophyceae, and Rhodophyceae were recorded. Of these groups, Chlorophyceae, specifically, desmids formed the dominant flora. Zygnematales were dominant during monsoon, while Chroococcales was the most dominant group during the post-monsoon season. Ecological conditions like temperature, pH, dissolved gases, and inorganic salts were found to impact the growth and abundance of microalgae. The ecological parameters showed a prominent effect on microalgal diversity. The results indicated that site SR was the least polluted and most diverse among the lentic habitats studied. It also had lesser noxious algal species which could be attributed to its nutrient composition.		[Shetty, Karunya; Gulimane, Krishnakumar] Mangalore Univ, Dept Appl Bot, Mangalore 574199, India; [Shetty, Karunya] Mangalore Univ, Dept Appl Bot, Mangalore 574199, India								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000984544000002		
J	Akamagwuna, Frank C.; Odume, Oghenekaro N.; Richoux, Nicole B.								Agricultural disturbance affects taxonomic and functional diversity of Afrotropical macroinvertebrate composition in a South African river system								ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS				18						100251	10.1016/j.indic.2023.100251			JUN 2023	2023	Developing species-level biomonitoring tools to monitor riverine systems threatened by anthropogenic pollution, including local agricultural activities in the Afrotropical region, remain a critical challenge. Here we explored the utility of taxonomic-based (diversity, richness, and composition) as well as functional-based (functional diversity) indices to examine the effects of agricultural disturbance on macroinvertebrate communities in the Kat River, Eastern Cape Province of South Africa. We collected physicochemical parameters and macroinvertebrates from eight sites delineated into four land-use categories (highly impacted, HIC; impacted category, IC; moderately impacted, MIC and least impacted, LIC) using agricultural land cover. We recorded 70 macroinvertebrate taxa belonging to 49 families and 48 genera in the Kat River. Redundancy analysis (RDA) and Pearson correlation analysis revealed that species of Lymnaeidae, Belostomatidae, Planorbidae and Libellulidae families and class Oligochaeta were tolerant to agricultural disturbance, as they were dominant in the highly impacted sites and were significantly associated with high salinity, temperature, total dissolved solids (TDS), flow velocity and nutrients. Conversely, species of Baetidae, Caenidae and Potamonautidae were negatively associated with the highly impacted sites and high salinity, temperature, and nutrients. On the other hand, taxonomic indices showed more sensitivity to indicators of agricultural pollution than functional indices, with taxon richness, Shannon index, Simpson's index and Margalef's index declining significantly in the highly disturbed sites (p < 0.05). They were negatively associated with high electrical conductivity, large river width, and high nitrite and nitrate concentrations; hence they were identified as indicator metrics sensitive to agricultural pollution. Overall, our study revealed that agricultural disturbance could differentially affect the structure and function of macroinvertebrates, and indicator taxonomic and functional indices were identified for long-term monitoring of rivers that drain agricultural landscapes.		[Akamagwuna, Frank C.; Richoux, Nicole B.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Zool & Entomol, ZA-6140 Makhanda, South Africa; [Akamagwuna, Frank C.; Odume, Oghenekaro N.] Rhodes Univ, Inst Water Res, Unilever Ctr Environm Water Qual, ZA-6140 Makhanda, South Africa; [Akamagwuna, Frank C.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Zool & Entomol, ZA-6140 Makhanda, South Africa								2							Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000982221000001		
J	Park, Jong Myong; You, Young-Hyun								Culturable Endophyte Fungi of the Well-Conserved Coastal Dune Vegetation Located on the East Coast of the Korean Peninsula								JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING				11	4					734	10.3390/jmse11040734			APR 2023	2023	This study aimed to determine the diversity and distribution of endophytic fungi in coastal dune vegetation. Endophytic fungi promote plant growth and protect host plants from environmental stress and pathogens. Plants that have flourished as a result are critical for protecting coastal sand dunes from erosion. A total of 361 root-colonizing fungal endophytes were purely isolated from 24 halophyte species comprising all dune plant communities indigenous to a well-conserved coastal area based on morphological differences. Molecular identification and phylogeny using amplified ribosomal RNA sequences and internal transcribed spacer regions identified that the fungal isolates belong to seven classes and 39 genera. Penicillium (43.21%) was the most dominant genera, followed by Talaromyces (16.90%) and Aspergillus (11.91%). Furthermore, these genera present a wide host range. However, 16 other genera exhibited strong host specificity. When compared to other herbaceous or shrub host plant species, Talaromyces predominated as endophytes of the roots of the canopy-forming coastal windbreak tree Pinus thunbergii. Based on Margalef's, Menhinick's, Shannon's, and Simpson's diversity indices, the root-colonizing endophytes of P. thunbergii had higher morphological diversity. The endophyte fungi associated with five of the coastal plants studied are heretofore unreported. In fact, of all fungal genera characterized here, 13 genera (30%) have not been previously reported as marine fungal endophytes or coastal fungi. The foregoing results suggest that future coastal sand dune conservation studies should examine the biological resources of entire bioclusters and not merely the dominant plants or their endosymbionts.		[Park, Jong Myong] Incheon Metropolitan City Inst Publ Hlth & Environ, Incheon 22320, South Korea; [Park, Jong Myong] Water Qual Res Inst, Waterworks Headquarters, Incheon 21316, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Biol Resources Utilizat Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Biol Resources Utilizat Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea								0							Engineering, Marine; Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000976464800001		
J	Huang, Kuo-Chin; Lee, Jai-Wei; Hu, Yi-Fan; Ballantyne, Rolissa; Liu, Chun-Hung								Effects of<i> Aspergillus-meal</i> prebiotic diet on the growth performance, health status and gut microbiota of Asian seabass,<i> Lates</i><i> calcarifer</i>								FISH & SHELLFISH IMMUNOLOGY				136						108696	10.1016/j.fsi.2023.108696			MAY 2023	2023	In this study, the growth performance, health status and intestinal microbiota of juvenile Asian seabass, Lates calcarifer, were assessed after dietary administration of a prebiotic product obtained from fermented Aspergillus orizae, Fermacto (R). Asian seabass were fed three diets; control (without Aspergillus-meal prebiotic), 0.2% and 0.3% Aspergillus-meal prebiotic for 56 days. Fish were raised in freshwater with acceptable water quality. No significant differences were found in the growth performance and composition of dorsal fish muscle among all groups. Fish fed diets supplemented with 0.3% of Aspergillus-meal prebiotic had a significantly higher survival rate after being challenged with V. alginolyticus than fish fed with the control diet. Supplementation of the Aspergillus-meal prebiotic significantly improved immune responses by inducing higher respiratory burst, superoxide dismutase, phagocytic and lysozyme activity compared to the control group. In addition, prebiotic doses significantly induced an up-regulation of heat shock cognate 70 kDa protein (hsp70) in the liver compared to the control group. Signaling pathways were also affected with significantly higher gene expression of complement c-3 (c3), mechanistic target of rapamycin (mtor), and mammalian lethal with SEC13 protein 8 (mlst-8) in the liver of fish fed 0.3% Aspergillus prebiotic. The pro-inflammatory gene, tumor necrosis factor (tnf) and antiinflammatory gene, transforming growth factor beta-1 (tfg-beta 1) were significantly higher in the head kidney of fish offered prebiotic diets. Fish receiving Aspergillus-meal prebiotic revealed significantly higher expression of Mx gene 24 h post nervous necrosis virus injection compared to the control. Additionally, the alpha-diversity of gut microbiota, including genus, Pielou's evenness, Shannon diversity index, and Margalef's species richness were significantly higher in fish fed 0.3% Aspergillus-meal prebiotic than the control group. The principal component analysis eigenvector plots showed that a high abundance of beneficial bacteria, such as Entercoccus faecium, Lactococcus lactis, Macrococcus caseolyticus and Vagococcus fluvialis, along with potentially pathogenic bacteria, such as Staphylococcus sciuri and L. garvieae subsp. garvieae were present in fish treated with Aspergillus-meal prebiotic. Although dietary Aspergillus-meal prebiotic did not improve the growth performance of Asian seabass, 0.3% of Aspergillus-meal prebiotic is recommended to elevate the immunological status of fish.		[Huang, Kuo-Chin; Lee, Jai-Wei; Ballantyne, Rolissa] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Trop Agr & Int Cooperat, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan; [Hu, Yi-Fan; Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan; [Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 912, Taiwan; [Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 912, Taiwan								2							Fisheries; Immunology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000965596200001		
J	Peng, Shuai; Wang, Xuehui; Du, Feiyan; Sun, Dianrong; Wang, Yuezhong; Chen, Pimao; Qiu, Yongsong								Variations in fish community composition and trophic structure under multiple drivers in the Beibu Gulf								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				10						1159602	10.3389/fmars.2023.1159602			MAR 14 2023	2023	IntroductionBeibu Gulf is a semi-enclosed bay with important ecological and economic value of the northwestern South China Sea (SCS). It proved to be a stressed ecosystem and therefore clearly vulnerable to further external disturbances. MethodsData from 26 fishery bottom trawl surveys in the Beibu Gulf from 2006 to 2018 are analyzed to reveal changes in the fish abundance, dominant species composition, diversity, mean trophic level (MTL), and fishing-in-balance (FiB) index. ResultsFish abundance decreased significantly (p< 0.05) with increased anthropogenic disturbance (e.g., fishing intensity and land-derived pollutants), with catch per unit effort (CPUE) decreasing from 40.69 kg center dot h(-1) in 2006 to 15.84 kg center dot h(-1) in 2018. Dominant species composition has changed dramatically from 2006 to 2018, with fish communities shifting from demersal to pelagic species, and from large and high-trophic-level species to small and low-trophic-level species. Meanwhile, Margalef's richness and Shannon-Wiener diversity indexes trend downward. The MTL declines from 3.82 in 2006 to 3.71 in 2018 (at 0.08 trophic level per decade), and decreasing with the decrease of the proportion of high-trophic fish and demersal fish in total catch (p< 0.05). A FiB index tends to be less than 0, this index declines with decreasing MTL and fish abundance (p< 0.05). DiscussionOverall, fish stocks in the Beibu Gulf continue to decline and are currently overexploited. Multiple external disturbances, such as fishing (including overfishing, dominance of trawl fishery, and 'skipper effect'), habitat disturbance, pollution, and temperature changes, may have contributed to significant changes in fish communities and trophic structure in the Beibu Gulf.		[Peng, Shuai; Wang, Xuehui; Du, Feiyan; Sun, Dianrong; Wang, Yuezhong; Chen, Pimao; Qiu, Yongsong] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Peng, Shuai] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Coll Marine Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui; Chen, Pimao] Natl Digital Fisheries Marine Ranching Innovat Sub, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui; Chen, Pimao] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Marine Ranching, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui; Chen, Pimao] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Sci Observing & Expt Stn South China Sea Fishery R, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui; Chen, Pimao] Guangdong Engn Technol Res Ctr Marine Recreat Fish, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui; Chen, Pimao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Marine Ranching Technol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Sanya Trop Fisheries Res Inst, Sanya, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Natl Digital Fisheries Marine Ranching Innovat Sub, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Marine Ranching, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Sci Observing & Expt Stn South China Sea Fishery R, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Guangdong Engn Technol Res Ctr Marine Recreat Fish, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Marine Ranching Technol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xuehui] Sanya Trop Fisheries Res Inst, Sanya, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000956720900001		
J	Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li								Effects of habitat factors on the plant diversity on naturally-restored wind farm slopes								PEERJ				11						e14912	10.7717/peerj.14912			MAR 1 2023	2023	This study investigated naturally-restored plant communities on wind farm slopes and analyzed the effects of various habitat factors on the plant diversity. The findings provide a technical support for the ecological restoration of mountainous slopes.Twenty-one slopes on five wind farms were selected and the characteristics of the habitat, including slope position, slope aspect, slope gradient, altitude, years since restoration, and plant communities, were recorded. The species richness of the plant communities and the vegetation diversity indexes of these wind farms were measured and calculated, including the Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), Pielou's species evenness index (J), and Margalef's richness index (R). The key factors influencing plant diversity were identified using a stepwise regression analysis. A total of 36 families, 54 genera, and 57 species of plants were identified in this study with the Gramineae, Compositae, Rosaceae, Liliaceae, and Juglandaceae families the mostly predominant. Cynodon dactylon, Rubus lambertianus Ser., and Lindera glauca were the dominant species of herbs, shrubs, and trees, respectively. The highest number of species were found on lower slopes, slopes with semi-sunny aspects, slopes with gradients 30-50 degrees, elevation below 500 m, and on slopes with at least five years since restoration. The plant diversity H' and R tended to be higher on lower slopes than on upper slopes, and higher on slopes with semi-shady aspects than on slopes with semi-sunny aspects (P < 0.05). Vegetation diversity increased with the years since restoration. Slope position and slope aspect were identified as the primary influencing factors, and the H' and R indexes were major indicators of changes in plant diversity on mountainous slopes.		[Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Civil Engn Architecture & Environm, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li] Innovat Demonstrat Base Ecol Environm Geotech & Ec, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Civil Engn Architecture & Environm, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan] Innovat Demonstrat Base Ecol Environm Geotech & Ec, Wuhan, Peoples R China								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000944024200001		
J	Shi, Zeyu; Bai, Zhongke; Guo, Donggang; Ma, Xu; Chen, Meijing; Li, Shuai								Synergistic effects aided the growth of black locust in reclaimed areas of semi-arid open-pit coal mines								FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11						1082321	10.3389/fevo.2023.1082321			JAN 19 2023	2023	The mining of mineral resources has caused serious damage to the ecosystems of mining areas, resulting in the degradation of large areas of vegetation. In the Loess Plateau in particular, the ecological environment is fragile, and soil erosion is serious. It is urgent to restore vegetation and to improve the quality of the damaged environment. In the process of restoring the vegetation in the Pingshuo opencast mining area, this paper investigates the growth rates of species and the factors that affect these rates. The results showed that the maximum growth rate of Robinia pseudoacacia was 0.25 m/year in Mingled stand and 0.23 m/year in pure stand. The growth rate of R. pseudoacacia in Mingled stand was higher than that in pure stand, and the diversity indicators in the Mingled stand plots were higher than those in the pure stand plots. The stepwise regression analysis of the species diversity index, soil, and climate with the growth rate of the two plots showed that Margalef's richness index had a significant effect on the growth rate of R. pseudoacacia in Mingled stands. This indicates that the R. pseudoacacia in our study area grows faster in mingled stand and that the Ulmus pumila and Ailanthus altissima that belong to the broad-leaved forest will grow together with R. pseudoacacia. The configuration pattern of broad-leaved pure stand is more singular than that of broad-leaved mingled stand, so the pure stand is not more suitable for vegetation restoration in the mining area.		[Shi, Zeyu; Bai, Zhongke; Ma, Xu; Chen, Meijing] China Univ Geosci, Sch Land Sci & Technol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Zhongke] Minist Nat Resources, Key Lab Land Consolidat & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Zhongke] Minist Nat Resources, Technol Innovat Ctr Ecol Restorat Engn Min Area, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Guo, Donggang] Shanxi Univ, Coll Environm & Resource Sci, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Li, Shuai] Shanxi Agr Univ, Coll Resource & Environm, Taigu, Peoples R China; [Bai, Zhongke] China Univ Geosci, Sch Land Sci & Technol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Zhongke] Minist Nat Resources, Key Lab Land Consolidat & Rehabil, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Bai, Zhongke] Minist Nat Resources, Technol Innovat Ctr Ecol Restorat Engn Min Area, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Ecology	WOS:000921896500001		
J	Qureshi, Huma; Anwar, Tauseef; Mohibullah, Muhammad; Fatima, Sammer; Younas, Rafia; Habiba, Ume; Malik, Laraib; Hanif, Asma; Iqbal, Muhammad								Paired plot experiments to assess impact of invasive species on native floral diversity in Pakistan								FRONTIERS IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE				10						1037319	10.3389/fenvs.2022.1037319			JAN 12 2023	2023	The threat of invasion is growing globally and endangers biodiversity. Exotic invasive plants are putting a harm to the vegetation of Pakistan's Pothwar region, which is a biodiversity hotspot. In the current study, the effects of Broussonetia papyrifera, Parthenium hysterophorus, Xanthium strumarium, and Lantana camara on the local flora in the Pothwar area were examined. Two categorical groups (invaded and non-invaded) were used in a dichotomized experimental design to collect data. Using the software PRIMER-7 and IBM SPSS v. 21, different diversity indices including Margalef's index of species richness, Shannon index of diversity, and Simpson index of dominance were measured and compared between invaded and control plots. In comparison to the experimental plots, the control plots had an average of more individuals and diversity. On a multivariate scale, non-metric multidimensional scaling (nMDS) and analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) revealed higher species richness in control plots. The invasion effect of L. camara was the highest, followed by X. strumarium, P. hysterophorus, and B. papyrifera.		[Qureshi, Huma; Iqbal, Muhammad] Univ Chakwal, Dept Bot, Chakwal, Pakistan; [Anwar, Tauseef] Islamia Univ Bahawalpur, Dept Bot, Baghdad Ul Jadeed Campus, Bahawalpur, Pakistan; [Mohibullah, Muhammad] Gomal Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Plant Breeding & Genet, Dera Ismail Khan, Pakistan; [Fatima, Sammer] Univ Gujrat, Dept Bot, Gujrat, Pakistan; [Younas, Rafia; Habiba, Ume] Gomal Univ, Dept Environm Sci, Dera Ismail Khan, Pakistan; [Malik, Laraib] Govt Coll Univ, Dept Environm Sci, Faisalabad, Pakistan; [Hanif, Asma] Islamia Univ Bahawalpur, Dept Bot, Bahawalnagar Campus, Bahawalpur, Pakistan; [Qureshi, Huma] Univ Chakwal, Dept Bot, Chakwal, Pakistan								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000922775900001		
J	Alghanem, S. M. S.; AlHaithloul, H. A. S.								SPECIES DIVERSITY AND FLORISTIC COMPOSITION OF RAWDHAT ABALWOROOD VEGETATION IN AL-ASYAH, AL-QASSIM REGION, SAUDI ARABIA								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				21	5			4703	4719		10.15666/aeer/2105_47034719			2023	2023	Rawdhat Abalworood in Al-Qassim region of Saudi Arabia is one of the most important rawdhats of this area. The present study provides insight of vegetation types, life forms, as well as floristic categories and species distribution, highlighting the ecological factors that influence species distribution. A total of 44 species representing 19 families of vascular plants were recorded. The dominating groups were Asteraceae and Brassicaceae, and the dominant life forms were therophytes and chamaephytes, displaying a typical desert life- form range. Two of the eighteen studied sites had the maximum species richness value of 15 species per plot. Five of the 18 sites studied had the lowest species richness assessing of 10 species per plot. The most frequent life form classes observed in Rawdhat Abalworood, Al-Asyah, Al-Qassim region were Therophytes (Th) and Chamaephytes (Ch), with 65.91% and 15.91%, respectively. Chorological analysis exhibited Saharo-Sindian (SA-SI) and Irano-Turanian-Saharo-Sindian (IR-TR+SA-SI) represented by 20.45% and 18.18, respectively. Chronologically, surveyed plant species were recognized into three categories; mono regional, bi regional, and pluri regional. The three chorological categories were represented by 31.81%, 50.0%, and 18.18%; respectively. Species diversity in terms of Margalef's diversity index (Figure 6A) ranged between 1.6 to 2.6 with an average of 2.1 to 0.3, Shannon- Weiner diversity index (Figure 6D) showed close diversity levels as Margalef's and ranged between 1.6 to 2.4 with an average of 2.1. Using CCA multivariate analysis effect of 6 environmental factors is distinguished upon vegetation. The CCA ordination revealed that the separation of Vegetation group III along the axis was influenced by Silt, WHC, OM, OC, and Clay, whereas VG II was substantially related to sand%.		[Alghanem, S. M. S.] Qassim Univ, Dept Biol, Coll Sci, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia; [AlHaithloul, H. A. S.] Jouf Univ, Dept Biol, Coll Sci, Sakaka 2014, Saudi Arabia; [AlHaithloul, H. A. S.] Jouf Univ, Dept Biol, Coll Sci, Sakaka 2014, Saudi Arabia								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:001104638200025		
J	Ihejirika, Chinedu Emeka; Orji, Uwakwe Angelbert; Okeke, Peter Ndu; Imo, Ejeagba Okorie; Nwachukwu, Joseph Ikechukwu								Dynamism in plankton species occurrence and diversity of an impacted aquatic ecosystem, Southeastern Nigeria								EQA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY				53				21	34		10.6092/issn.2281-4485/16298			2023	2023	Anthropogenic activities in rivers have been a major ecological problem affecting river morphology, water hydraulics, aquatic bio-systems and processes, and general water quality. This study established the diversity of planktons and physicochemical properties of dredging site of Otammiri River, Imo State. Water samples were collected from upstream, dredging site and downstream, with the aid of clean water sampling bottles and immediately transported to the laboratory for analysis. Plankton net of 55 mu m mesh was used to collect plankton samples and immediately transferred to plastic containers for microscopic examination, enumeration and classification. Occurrences of phytoplankton and zooplankton species were determined while Index of Diversity was computed using Margalef's model. Multivariate redundancy analysis and biplot were used to show association among the planktons and the proportion of their occurrences at the sampling points. Phytoplankton was classified into Bacillariophyceae (Diatoms) (51.19%), Cyanophyceae (26.62%), Chlorophyceae (14.68%), Euglenophyceae (2.05%), Chrysophyceae (3.07%), and Xanthophyceace (2.39%); while zooplanktons were classified into Protozoa (47.06%), Rotifera (35.29%) and Cladocera (17.65%). Index of Diversity for phytoplankton species were: upstream (4.82), dredging site (5.19) and downstream (5.82); while for zooplankton were (1.86), (0.91) and (1.37) respectively. Physicochemical parameters showed significant variation (P<0.05) at the different sampling points. Dredging and other anthropogenic activities might be responsible for alterations in physicochemical characteristics and diversity of planktons in Otammiri River with consequences of ecological imbalance in the aquatic ecosystem.		[Ihejirika, Chinedu Emeka; Orji, Uwakwe Angelbert; Okeke, Peter Ndu; Nwachukwu, Joseph Ikechukwu] Fed Univ Technol Owerri, Dept Environm Management, Owerri, Nigeria; [Imo, Ejeagba Okorie] Fed Univ Technol Owerri, Dept Microbiol, Owerri, Nigeria; [Ihejirika, Chinedu Emeka] Fed Univ Technol Owerri, Dept Environm Management, Owerri, Nigeria								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000966848700001		
J	Negi, Vipasha; Bhardwaj, D. R.; Sharma, Prashant; Pala, Nazir A.								Tree species composition and diversity in natural temperate forests of the North-Western Himalayas								ACTA ECOLOGICA SINICA				42	6			653	660		10.1016/j.chnaes.2021.09.014			DEC 2022	2022	The present study was undertaken in the natural temperate Himalayan forests of Himachal Pradesh, India, to assess the tree species composition and diversity. For this purpose, six major forest types (FT) viz., FT1- Upper Himalayan Pinus roxburghii forest, FT2- Quercus leucotrichophora forest, FT3- Low-level P. wallichiana forest, FT4-Moist C. deodara forest, FT5- Western Mixed Coniferous Forest, FT6- Pinus gerardiana forest were selected. Detailed sampling was carried out in these forest types, and the sample plots in each forest type were laid out using the stratified random approach. Tree stem density varied from 191.11 N ha(-1) (FT6) to 441.11 N ha(-1) (FT2), whereas the tree total basal cover varied from 20.01 m(2) ha(-1) (FT6) to 47.59 m(2) ha(-1) (FT5). The diversity indices reflected that a total of 21 tree species (16 genera, 11 families) were identified, with tree species richness ranging from 3 (FT6) to 9 (FT1 & FT5). The forest type FT5 recorded the maximum Shannon index of diversity (2.36), Simpson Index of diversity (0.75), Margalef's Index of richness (1.37), pielou equitability (0.74), menheink index of species richness (0.49), whereas the highest Shannon Index of diversity (0.73) and species heterogeneity (0.85) in FT6 forest type. Furthermore, dominance-diversity (d-d) curves drawn that all the six forest types showed geometric curves reveals that one or two tree species are dominant in a particular forest type. Simultaneously, the research area's species diversity, tree stem density, and tree total basal cover were equivalent to those seen in other sections of Western Himalayas.		[Negi, Vipasha; Bhardwaj, D. R.; Sharma, Prashant] Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar Univ Hort & Forestry, Dept Silviculture & Agroforestry, Solan 173230, India; [Negi, Vipasha] Khalsa Coll, Dept Agr, Amritsar 143002, Punjab, India; [Pala, Nazir A.] SKUAST Kashmir, Fac Forestry, Div Silviculture & Agroforestry, Srinagar, India; [Pala, Nazir A.] SKUAST Kashmir, Fac Forestry, Div Silviculture & Agroforestry, Srinagar, India								1							Ecology	WOS:001102997500012		
J	Agbelade, Aladesanmi Daniel; Akomolafe, Ifeoluwa Grace; Ojerinde, Gboyega Emmanuel								Determination of phytosociological characteristic, biodiversity conservation dynamics and biomass potentials in a Nigerian protected forest								TAIWANIA				67	4			576	586		10.6165/tai.2022.67.576			NOV 14 2022	2022	Tropical rainforest contributes immensely to the richness, diversity and productivity of ecosystem. This study aimed to determine the structure, biodiversity and carbon stocks of Okomu protected forest in Nigeria. Simple random technique was adopted in selection of 9 compartments and in each compartment 4 plots of size was selected with 36 plots of (25 m x 25 m x 36 plots), making a total of 2.25 ha selected from the entire forest. Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Shannon's equitability of species evenness, Margalef's index of species richness and volume equations were used to determine species diversity, evenness, richness and tree structure respectively. There were 790 individual trees, 351 stems ha-1 belonging to 67 tropical hardwood species, 86 genera and 31 families. About 24% of tree species in this protected forest were among tree species that needs urgent conservation measures. The total volume was estimated to be from 1970.40 to 9437.76 m3 with an average of 4643.20 m3 ha-1, an indication of vertical and horizontal structure confirm the growing natural of this protected forest. Accumulation of total biomass was estimated to be from 1150.72 to 6795.20 kg ha-1 with an average of 2927.72 kg ha-1. The carbon stock in this protected forest was estimated to be from 575.36 to 3397.60 kg ha-1 with an average of 1463.88 kg ha-1. The forest serves as biodiversity hotspot due to high Shannon-Wiener index and evenness computed for the compartments. This serves as information for management of protected forests, with potentials for nature conservation and carbon sequestration.		[Agbelade, Aladesanmi Daniel; Akomolafe, Ifeoluwa Grace; Ojerinde, Gboyega Emmanuel] Ekiti State Univ, Fac Agr ultural Sci, Dept Forest Resources & Wildlife Management, Ado Ekiti, Nigeria; [Agbelade, Aladesanmi Daniel] Ekiti State Univ, Fac Agr ultural Sci, Dept Forest Resources & Wildlife Management, Ado Ekiti, Nigeria								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000886918700014		
J	Gayo, Leopody								Influence of afforestation on coleopterans abundance and diversity at the University of Dodoma, Tanzania								ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS				16						100208	10.1016/j.indic.2022.100208			DEC 2022	2022	Afforestation transforms the structure and functioning ability of an ecosystem. Converting a bare landscape through afforestation may have positive and negative consequences to the biodiversity. The study assessed the abundance and diversity of beetles in different selected habitats at the University of Dodoma, Tanzania. The habitats involved afforested areas with exotic trees of five years, three years, and eight months, as well as shrubland and grassland. Pitfall traps were established along the 10 transects of 100 m each in the sampled plots to collect beetles. About 1031 beetles of 19 species were collected. Species richness was high in shrubland [Margalef's index (D) = 1.75, 10 species] and in afforested plots of five years (D = 1.62, 9 species), implying that areas with high vegetation cover might be suitable for beetles. Kruskal-Wallis showed a statistically significant difference among the five plots (H = 57.33, p = 0.03), with the highest abundance in shrubland (303 individuals). An afforested area was occupied by 608 beetles, equivalent to 59% of total abundance. According to the Shannon-Wiener index, shrubland had the most species diversity (H ' = 3.17) and an 8-month plantation had the least (0.61). The study also found that the species abundance, richness, and diversity were high in the 5-year old afforested plot. The difference in abundance was statistically significant in afforested areas (Kruskal-Wallis, H = 31.21, p = 0.01). The study recommends more research on the influence of plant species on beetle abundance and diversity to gain a better understanding of beetle functional diversity.		[Gayo, Leopody] Univ Dodoma, Dept Biol, POB 338, Dodoma, Tanzania; [Gayo, Leopody] Univ Dodoma, Dept Biol, POB 338, Dodoma, Tanzania								3							Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000879179000001		
J	Mequanent, Dagnew; Mingist, Minwyelet; Getahun, Abebe; Anteneh, Wassie; Getnet, Banchiamlak; Birie, Solomon								The investigation of the zooplankton community in the newly formed Ribb Reservoir, Ethiopia: the tropical highland reservoir								HELIYON				8	9					e10533	10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e10533			SEP 2022	2022	Understanding the composition, diversity, and abundance of the zooplankton community is crucial for better utilization of the Ribb Reservoir, as zooplankton are the second link in the food chain in aquatic systems (they are also excellent bioindicators of aquatic health, given their central food web position) and the reservoir also serves as a source of income for the fishers. Therefore, sampling including some water quality parameters was conducted twice in the four seasons: autumn, summer, spring, and winter, from September 2020 to August 2021, in the first week of September, December, February, March, May, June, and August. Most of the physicochemical parameter values recorded in this study indicated that they were within the range of standards for zooplankton community requirements. Of the 14 species identified, Mesocyclops aequatorialis similis, Thermodiaptomus galebi, and Bra-chionus angularis had the first, second, and lowest records, respectively. Species abundance showed a decrease from autumn to winter and then to spring and summer. Species richness (14), abundance (6736), Margalef's diversity index (1.48), Menhinick's diversity index (0.17), Simpson index (0.098), dominance index (0.902), Shannon index (2.47), equality index (0.934), and reciprocal Simpson index (10.2) of the species were calculated in the reservoir. Some of the proposed management measures include reservoir buffering, impact assessment of over-abstraction of water for irrigation, time series of water quality data, and the reservoir water level should be above the conduit.		[Mequanent, Dagnew; Mingist, Minwyelet; Getnet, Banchiamlak] Bahir Dar Univ, Coll Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Fisheries,Wetlands & Wildlife Management,, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Getahun, Abebe] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Zool Sci, Addis Ababa 1176, Ethiopia; [Anteneh, Wassie] Bahir Dar Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Biol, Box 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Birie, Solomon] Debre Tabor Univ, Dept Biol, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Mequanent, Dagnew] Bahir Dar Univ, Coll Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Fisheries,Wetlands & Wildlife Management,, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia								4							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000863299900003		
J	Kumar, Rahul; Kumar, Amit; Saikia, Purabi								Forest composition regulates above-ground biomass in <i>Sal</i> forests of Ranchi, Eastern India								ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY				5	3			355	373		10.1007/s42398-022-00240-x			SEP 2022	2022	The present study is aimed to determine the relationship between above-ground biomass (AGB) and plant diversity attributes in the Sal forests of Ranchi, Eastern India. High AGB (410.70 Mg ha(-1)) and carbon stock (Cp) (193.06 Mg C ha(-1)) were recorded in the studied forests, and forest-wise AGB ranged from 0.19 to 24.75 Mg ha(-1) (mean 4.45 +/- 0.45 Standard Error (SE). Most of the studied forests (65%) had very low AGB (< 5.00 Mg ha(-1)), except only one forest located in the northwest corner of Ranchi (AGB > 20 Mg ha(-1)). A significant positive correlation of AGB was observed with Cp (r = 0.99, p < 0.01), Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index (H') (r = 0.58, p < 0.01), Margalef's Index of Species Richness (Dmg) (r = 0.31, p < 0.01), Menhinick's Index of Species Richness (Dmn) (r = 0.49, p < 0.01), Effective Number of Species (ENS) (r = 0.57, p < 0.01), Pielou's Evenness Index (E) (r = 0.26, p < 0.05), and Basal area (BA) (r = 0.71, p < 0.05). However, a negative significant correlation of AGB was evident with Simpson Index of Dominance (CD) (r = - 0.57, p < 0.01), and insignificant negative correlation with density (r = - 0.17). The relationships differed greatly among various forests, and the strongest relationships within each forest were always those having greater richness (Dmg, Dmn), diversity (H, ENS), basal area, or evenness (E). The results suggest that forest composition plays a significant role in enhancing biomass carbon stock in Sal dominating tropical forests of Eastern India. The majority of forest patches are in a dire state regarding future carbon security that reflects under performance of various forest management strategies.		[Kumar, Rahul; Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India; [Kumar, Amit] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Geoinformat, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India; [Kumar, Rahul] ICFRE Inst Forest Prod, Ranchi 835303, Jharkhand, India; [Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001126196100009		
J	Battaglia, Joseph P.; Kearney, Christian M.; Guerette, Kirsten; Corbishley, Jordan; Sanchez, Emily; Kent, Brennah; Storie, Hanna; Sharp, Emma; Martin, Shane; Saberito, Matthew; Blake, Jonathan D.; Feinn, Richard S.; Mital, Jeffrey; Kaplan, Lisa A. E.								Use of multiple endpoints to assess the impact of captivity on gut flora diversity in Long Island Sound <i>Fundulus heteroclitus</i>								ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY OF FISHES				105	7			867	883		10.1007/s10641-022-01293-x			JUL 2022	2022	We evaluated the impact of short-term captive housing on gut flora diversity in Fundulus heteroclitus by characterizing culturable gut bacteria immediately after fish capture and following short-term (28-day) captive housing. Bacterial colony and cell morphology served as crude but statistically significant endpoints for detecting alteration in culturable gut bacteria following F. heteroclitus short-term captive housing. 16S rRNA sequence analyses of isolates from short-term captive-housed F. heteroclitus produced fewer families (68%), genera (69%), and species (63%) identities resulting in lower species richness (63%), 2.4-fold lower Margalef's Index, 1.7-fold lower Menhinick's Index, 28.6% lower Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index, 2.1-fold greater Simpson Dominance Index, 1.5-fold greater Berger-Parker Dominance, and 2.9-fold lower Fisher's Alpha Diversity Index. When comparing isolate populations from field and short-term captive-housed fish, Sorenson's Similarity Coefficient (CC) was 0.081, and Jaccard's Distance Coefficient (1-J) was 0.958. Based upon these observations, our study provides clear evidence for the substantial and negative impact of short-term captive housing on F. heteroclitus gut flora diversity.		[Battaglia, Joseph P.; Corbishley, Jordan; Sharp, Emma; Martin, Shane; Kaplan, Lisa A. E.] Quinnipiac Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Hamden, CT 06518 USA; [Kearney, Christian M.; Guerette, Kirsten; Sanchez, Emily; Kent, Brennah; Saberito, Matthew; Mital, Jeffrey] Quinnipiac Univ, Dept Biomed Sci, Hamden, CT 06518 USA; [Storie, Hanna] Quinnipiac Univ, Sch Hlth Sci, Hamden, CT 06518 USA; [Blake, Jonathan D.] Quinnipiac Univ, Sch Engn, Hamden, CT 06518 USA; [Feinn, Richard S.] Quinnipiac Univ, Frank H Netter MD Sch Med, Dept Med Sci, North Haven, CT 06473 USA; [Kaplan, Lisa A. E.] Quinnipiac Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Hamden, CT 06518 USA								1							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000828290200002		
J	Roy, Dulon; Didar, Nishat Binte; Sarker, Smita; Khan, Md. Arafat Rahman; Latifa, Gulshan Ara								Appraisal of different attributes of fish community in Andharmanik River of coastal Bangladesh and socio-economic conditions of fishermen								HELIYON				8	7						10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e09825			JUL 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to determine the fish species composition and appraise the status of fish diversity through sampling in six sample locations and to observe the socio economic conditions of the fishermen sur-rounding the river during the study period. There were 81 fish species found, classified into 13 orders, 40 families, and 69 genera. The most dominant order was Perciformes (55.42 %), followed by Clupeiformes (20.44 %), Cypriniformes (8.96 %), Siluriformes (8.13 %), and others (7.05%). To illustrate the species diversity, fish species richness and evenness in sampling areas, indices of fish community viz. Shannon-Wiener's Index (H), Simpson's Dominance Index (D), Simpson's Diversity Index (1-D), Margalef's Index (d) and Gibson's Evenness (euro) were used and 3.29-3.48, 0.05-0.069, 0.93-0.95, 6.88-8.43 and 0.39-0.49 respectively were the overall values of the indices. S1 station is significantly differ in species richness from the rest of the five stations (P < 0.05). The analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) displayed significant (P-value < 0.05) variations in fish community among sta-tions and months. In compliance with similarity percentage (SIMPER) analysis, 35.8% similarities were observed among the fish species from different stations, while 59.36% similarities were detected among the fish species from different months. One species is critically endangered (CR), three species are nearly threatened, eight species are endangered (EN), and eight species are vulnerable among the 81 fish species recorded at various sampling locations. The socioeconomic conditions of fishermen were determined on the basis of a personal interview and focus group discussion. Unfair fishing practices as well as environmental instabilities such as reduced water volume, increased sedimentation, water abstraction, and pollution have ravaged fish habitat and diminished fish diversity over time. As a result, fish preservation in the Andharmanik River has become imperative, and an in-tegrated management plan should be designed and executed as soon as possible.		[Roy, Dulon; Didar, Nishat Binte; Khan, Md. Arafat Rahman] Jagannath Univ, Fac Life & Earth Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh; [Sarker, Smita] Jagannath Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Stat, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh; [Latifa, Gulshan Ara] Univ Dhaka, Fac Biol Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh; [Roy, Dulon] Jagannath Univ, Fac Life & Earth Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh								3							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000843520000031		
J	Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Li, Yuan-jie; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi								Diversity and Structure of Demersal Fish Community Over the Northern Slope in the South China Sea								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				9						809636	10.3389/fmars.2022.809636			JUN 16 2022	2022	Three bottom trawl surveys over the northern continental slope in the South China Sea (18 degrees 50 '-20 degrees 40 ' N, 112 degrees 50 '-115 degrees 10 ' E) were carried out, in June 2015, March 2017 and September 2018, to investigate species composition, biodiversity and community structure of demersal fish. Surveys in 2015, 2017 and 2018 captured 97 fish species (representing 77 genera, 52 families, 26 orders), 108 fish species (representing 84 genera, 61 families, 19 orders) and 126 fish species (representing 105 genera, 74 families, 25 orders), respectively. Three surveys captured a total of 252 fish species, representing 164 genera, 97 families, 30 orders. Perciformes dominated. Species richness in station linking shallow continental shelf with deep slope was the lowest among stations. In three surveys, 16 species occurred in the catches of three surveys, accounting for 6.35% of all species. Species replacement rate between stations showed a significant linear relationship with the depth difference and latitude difference. Margalef's species richness index (D), Shannon-Weiner diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J') among stations ranged 2.65-6.74, 1.02-4.15 and 0.28-1.14, respectively. Differences of D, H' and J' were insignificant among seasons. There were significant positive linear relations between H' and J' and latitude. D, H' and J' decreased with increasing sampling depth, however the relations were not significant. Based on multivariate statistical analysis, fish community at species level was divided into five groups with average dissimilarities of 95.69%-99.96%. In terms of genus and family, average dissimilarities among groups were more than 88.11% and 82.69%. There were significant differences in species composition between depths, but no significant differences between seasons and temperatures, as well as in genus and family composition.		[Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Li, Yuan-jie; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzhou, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Open Sea Fishery, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Big Data South China Sea Fishery Resources, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzhou, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Open Sea Fishery, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Big Data South China Sea Fishery Resources, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000819303000001		
J	Yang, Bing; Li, Peng; Entemake, Wulan; Guo, Ziqi; Xue, Sha								Concentration-Dependent Impacts of Microplastics on Soil Nematode Community in Bulk Soils of Maize: Evidence From a Pot Experiment								FRONTIERS IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE				10						872898	10.3389/fenvs.2022.872898			JUN 14 2022	2022	Agricultural land soils have become a source and sink for microplastics. Due to the low recycling rate, long durability, and small size, microplastics pose a potential risk to soil fauna, which are critical for maintaining healthy soil. However, whether and how would microplastics affect soil biodiversity and ecological functioning is not well-understood. Soil nematodes are valuable indicators of the soil food web. In the present study, the abundance, diversity, community composition, maturity indices, soil food web indices, and metabolic footprints of soil nematodes in bulk soils of maize were utilized to indicate the potential impacts of polypropylene (PP) microplastic pollution on soil fauna using a soil-incubation experiment in a climate-controlled chamber with four concentration levels of microplastic pellets (0%, 0.5%, 1%, and 2%, w/w) added to loess soil collected from the Loess Plateau in China. Soil sampling was conducted at the fully ripe stage of maize. Twenty-nine genera of nematodes, including thirteen genera of plant-feeding nematodes, seven genera of bacterial-feeding nematodes, five genera of fungal-feeding nematodes, and four genera of omnivorous nematodes were recovered from soil samples. Microplastic concentration negatively affected the abundance, diversity (including genus richness, Margalef's richness, Shannon-Wiener index, and Simpson's dominance index), sigma maturity index ( n-ary sumation MI), structural index, and metabolic footprints. The abundances of plant parasites, bacterivores, fungivores, and omnivores in 2% soils were reduced by 90.16%, 76.06%, 82.35%, and 100%, respectively, in comparison with those of control. The major drivers of soil nematode communities in bulk soils of maize at a depth range of 0-20 cm were the soil pH, soil organic carbon content, C/N, and TP content. In conclusion, the addition of 200 mu m-sized PP microplastic pellets negatively affected the soil nematode community and associated ecological functioning under greenhouse conditions.		[Li, Peng; Entemake, Wulan; Guo, Ziqi; Xue, Sha] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess Pl, Xianyang, Peoples R China; [Yang, Bing] Sichuan Acad Giant Panda, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Xue, Sha] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess Pl, Xianyang, Peoples R China								3							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000817148800001		
J	Gatto, John, V; Ickes, Brian S.; Chick, John H.								Evidence of alternative trophic pathways for fish consumers in a large river system in the face of invasion								RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS				38	7			1321	1332		10.1002/rra.3992			SEP 2022	2022	Large rivers are susceptible to anthropogenic alteration, which can result in drastic changes to their functional ecology. We evaluated spatial-temporal changes in the functional fish communities of the Upper Mississippi River System (UMRS) using data from six study reaches. Species were classified into one of 14 feeding guilds and mass per unit effort (MPUE) was then calculated for each feeding guild annually per gear type. MPUE was standardized using the multigear mean standardization method (MGMS) and log-transformed. Both ANOSIM and Chi-square tests were used to determine differences in MPUE among reaches. We then estimated functional diversity by calculating the number of functional groups (N), Margalef's d, Pielou's J ', Shannon's Diversity, and Simpson's Diversity Index. An AR(1) time series model was used to investigate proportional changes in each guild over 25 years. To evaluate the effect of invasive Carp species in invaded reaches, a Chow test was applied to observations between 2000 and 2005. Analyses revealed differences in the functional fish community among reaches. We found differences in functional diversity metrics among study reaches, but there was little evidence that this differed between invaded and non-invaded reaches. Results determined that invertivore/detritivores have been consistently declining system-wide, with few groups showing a net change. There was also little evidence that invasion altered the proportion of any functional guild. Evaluating the spatial-temporal patterns of functional communities is beneficial to understanding the resilience of a system and can provide further insight into its trophic needs when considering future restoration initiatives.		[Gatto, John, V; Chick, John H.] Univ Illinois, Great Rivers Field Stn, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 918 Union St, Alton, IL 62002 USA; [Ickes, Brian S.] US Geol Survey, Upper Midwest Environm Sci Ctr, La Crosse, WI USA; [Gatto, John, V] Univ Illinois, Great Rivers Field Stn, Illinois Nat Hist Survey, 918 Union St, Alton, IL 62002 USA								0							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000806117100001		
J	Roy, Dulon; Sarker, Smita; Mustari, Shakira; Roy, Kamolesh; Khan, Md. Arafat Rahman; Latifa, Gulshan Ara								Exploration of fishing activities, fish species assemblage and diversity status of the largest wetland (Arial Beel) near the capital city in Bangladesh: Implications and conservation								ACTA ECOLOGICA SINICA				42	3			243	253		10.1016/j.chnaes.2022.03.004			JUN 2022	2022	The wetland named Arial beel is a true reflection of Bangladesh, where the water body is enriched with fish diversity. The purpose of this study was to describe the different types of fishing gear that are available with their characteristics, fish species assemblage and to assess the fish diversity status through sampling in five sampling stations during the study period. A total of 16 different types of fishing gears were discovered in the study, which were divided into eight major categories. There were 61 fish species found in total under 9 orders, 26 families and 45 genera. Cypriniformes (48.02%) was found to be the most dominant order, followed by Perciformes (17.07%), Siluriformes (15.96%), Synbranchiformes (9.33%), Clupeiformes (6.28%), and others (3.35%). Indices of Population viz. Shannon-Wiener's Index (H), Simpson's Dominance Index (D), Simpson's Diversity Index (1-D), Margalef's Index (d) and Gibson's Evenness (euro) were used to display species diversity, fish species richness and evenness in sampling areas and the overall values of the indices were 3.36-3.64, 0.033-0.048, 0.952-0.966, 4.74-6.02 and 0.64-0.73 respectively. There was a strong negative correlation between Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Dominance diversity index (r =-0.80936) and a moderate negative correlation between Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Evenness diversity index (r =-0.39911). According to Similarity percentage (SIMPER) analysis 67.29% similarity were found among the stations and 64.71% similarity were observed among the months of fish species. Among 61 fish species of different sampling stations found 5 species are critically endangered (CR), 11 species are endangered (EN) and 12 species are vulnerable according to IUCN red list (2015).		[Roy, Dulon; Mustari, Shakira; Roy, Kamolesh; Khan, Md. Arafat Rahman] Jagannath Univ, Fac Life & Earth Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh; [Sarker, Smita] Jagannath Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Stat, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh; [Latifa, Gulshan Ara] Univ Dhaka, Fac Biol Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh; [Roy, Dulon] Jagannath Univ, Fac Life & Earth Sci, Dept Zool, Dhaka 1100, Bangladesh								0							Ecology	WOS:001108352900009		
J	Oselladore, Federica; Bernarello, Valentina; Cacciatore, Federica; Cornello, Michele; Brusa, Rossella Boscolo; Sfriso, Adriano; Bonometto, Andrea								Changes in Macrozoobenthos Community after Aquatic Plant Restoration in the Northern Venice Lagoon (IT)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND PUBLIC HEALTH				19	8					4838	10.3390/ijerph19084838			APR 2022	2022	Responses of the macrozoobenthic community to an ecological restoration activity in the northern Venice lagoon were studied, within the scope of the project LIFE SEagrass RESTOration aimed at recreating aquatic phanerogam meadows largely reduced in recent decades. Transplants were successful in almost all project areas. Macrozoobenthos was sampled in eight stations before (2014) and after (2015, 2016, 2017) transplanting activities. An increase in abundance and fluctuations in richness and univariate ecological indices (Shannon's, Margalef's, Pielou's indices) resulted during the years. Comparing non-vegetated and vegetated samples in 2017, every index except Pielou's increased in the latter. Multivariate analysis (hierarchical cluster analysis, MDS, PERMDISP, SIMPER) grouped samples by localization rather than years, with differences between stations due to the abundance of common species. In 2017, results were also grouped by the presence or absence of aquatic plants, with differences in the abundance of grazer and filter-feeding species. Results of ecological index M-AMBI depicted conditions from moderate to good ecological status (sensu Dir.2000/60/EC) with similar fluctuations, as presented by univariate indices from 2014 to 2017. Responses of the macrozoobenthic community were more evident when comparing vegetated and non-vegetated samples, with the vegetated areas sustaining communities with greater abundance and diversity than non-vegetated samples, thus demonstrating the supporting function of aquatic plants to benthic communities.		[Oselladore, Federica; Bernarello, Valentina; Cacciatore, Federica; Cornello, Michele; Brusa, Rossella Boscolo; Bonometto, Andrea] Italian Natl Inst Environm Protect & Res ISPRA, Brondolo 5, I-30015 Chioggia, VE, Italy; [Sfriso, Adriano] CaFoscari Univ Venice, Ctr Estuarine Coastal & Marine Sci CEMAS, Dept Environm Sci Informat & Stat, Via Torino 155, I-30170 Venice, VE, Italy; [Cacciatore, Federica] Italian Natl Inst Environm Protect & Res ISPRA, Brondolo 5, I-30015 Chioggia, VE, Italy								3							Environmental Sciences; Public, Environmental & Occupational Health	WOS:000786139300001		
J	Divakara, Baragur Neelappa; Nikitha, Chitradurga Umesh; Noelke, Nils; Tewari, Vindhya Prasad; Kleinn, Christoph								Tree Diversity and Tree Community Composition in Northern Part of Megacity Bengaluru, India								SUSTAINABILITY				14	3					1295	10.3390/su14031295			FEB 2022	2022	Trees are natural capital assets, especially for cities, as they provide immense environmental benefits and improve urban biodiversity and ecology. However, urbanization has largely destroyed the original native ecosystems and has caused a homogenization where frequently native species are replaced by non-native species. When attempting to understand the role of trees in urban settings, it is important to generate science-based data on the spatial distribution of trees, their species composition and tree species diversity as a function of the degree of urbanization. Such information may specifically inform the planning of effective long-term management of trees across urban and rural gradients. A total of 23 of 1 ha each were surveyed along a Northern research transect laid out along the urban-rural gradient of the metropolitan area of Bengaluru, India. Plots were randomly selected from the stratum "settlement areas", where WorldView-3 imagery supported both stratification and plot selection. The plots were fully mapped for trees, where a total of eleven variables had been observed for each tree. In addition, the basal area and wood volume was calculated to understand the biomass potential of the trees in the plots. The diversity indices such as the Shannon index, Simpson index, Pielou's evenness and Margalef's richness were considered for comparing the species diversity, composition and distribution along the gradient of Bengaluru. A total of 1128 individuals of 93 tree species were recorded. Among 92 species identified along the northern gradient, 53 are exotic, and 39 are native species. The Shannon-Wiener index varied from 1.33 to 2.72; Simpson's index varied from 0.65 to 0.90; Pielou's index varied from 0.66 to 0.90, and Margalef's index ranged from 1.41 to 5.20 along the gradient. The basal area increased from 96.39 m(2) to 102.76 m(2) from 2017 to 2019 along the transect, with a net gain of 6.37 m(2). Similarly, the wood volume increased from 1819.57 m(3) to 1926.23 m(3) with a net gain of 106.66 m(3). The present study reports on tree distribution, species composition and tree species diversity along a gradient from the city center to the rural surroundings of northern parts of Bengaluru city. The information generated may support the city planners/administrators by providing a holistic understanding of the species composition and abundance for a further selection of adaptive species and appropriate tree and vegetation management practices to conserve the existing green spaces and contribute towards sustainable urban planning. The sample plots laid out may also serve as permanent observation plots for monitoring the dynamics of tree cover in the city.		[Divakara, Baragur Neelappa; Nikitha, Chitradurga Umesh; Tewari, Vindhya Prasad] Inst Wood Sci & Technol, Bengaluru 560003, Karnataka, India; [Noelke, Nils; Kleinn, Christoph] Georg August Univ, Forest Inventory & Remote Sensing, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany; [Divakara, Baragur Neelappa] Inst Wood Sci & Technol, Bengaluru 560003, Karnataka, India								9							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000754833200001		
J	Manuel Iglesias-Gomez, Jesus; Caridad Toral-Perez, Odalys; Rodriguez-Licea, Gabriela								Evaluation of biodiversity in a farm in agroecological transition								TERRA LATINOAMERICANA				40						e957	10.28940/terra.v40i0.957			2022	2022	A study was carried out at the in agroecological transition El Renacer farm, in the Perico municipality, Matanzas, with the objective of evaluating the functionality of some of the components of ecological biodiversity and the sustainability of its economic dimension. The farm has a total area of 43.5 ha; 40 of them dedicated to livestock. The rest is dedicated to crops (0.5 ha), fruit trees (1.5 ha), forestry (1.0) and facilities (0.5 ha). The functionality of biodiversity was evaluated, based on an analysis model that included the components: tree diversity, production diversity and species richness. Through a diagnosis, which included tours, semi-structured interviews and observation, the number of individuals of each species was quantified, which were characterized according to their functionality within the system. For the calculation of economic sustainability, the indicators were standardized and weighted according to their importance. Shannon's indices for tree diversity (2.06) and Margalef's for species richness (4.50) demonstrated that the system can be considered as high species richness and sustainable, while the diversity index production (1.46) showed that the farm is not self-sufficient, from the point of view of the development of the agricultural subsystem. The economic dimension reached a value of 3.56, close to what was expected for a sustainable farm. In a general sense, the values of the indicators of diversity of the agroecosystem were optimal and demonstrate its functionality, represented by diversification and agriculture-livestock integration, although it is recommended to expand the area destined to agricultural crops, to achieve greater self-sufficiency food.		[Manuel Iglesias-Gomez, Jesus; Caridad Toral-Perez, Odalys] Univ Matanzas, Estn Expt Pastos & Forrajes Indio Hanley, Cent Espana Republicana S-N, Matanzas 44280, Cuba; [Rodriguez-Licea, Gabriela] Ctr Univ UAEM Amecameca, Carretera Amecameca Ayapango Km 2-5, Amecameca De Juarez 56900, Estado De Mexic, Mexico; [Rodriguez-Licea, Gabriela] Ctr Univ UAEM Amecameca, Carretera Amecameca Ayapango Km 2-5, Amecameca De Juarez 56900, Estado De Mexic, Mexico								0							Agronomy; Soil Science	WOS:000943296000020		
J	Sivaperumal, P.; Khot, M.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Pawase, A.; Jaiswar, A. K.								Diversity of intertidal macrobenthic fauna around Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Maharashtra, west coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				51	1			56	66					JAN 2022	2022	Diversity of intertidal macrobenthic community and environmental parameters namely temperature, salinity, pH and DO were assessed near the proposed nuclear power plant site Jaitapur from 2012 to 2014. Analysis of macrobenthic samples revealed the presence of 54 species belonging to 19 different groups. Highest diversity (14 groups) was observed during the post-monsoon (2014) season. At sandy and rocky shores, polychaetes were dominant followed by crustaceans like amphipod, isopod, penaeid shrimps and decapod larvae. Among all inshore stations, diversity was found to be maximum at Ganeshgule (N SW30 kms). Shannon-Weiner diversity index (2.259) and Margalef's species richness index (2.502) indicated rich diversity at rocky habitats (N SW30 kms). The present study suggests the stable environmental parameters around the Jaitapur Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) sites and is responsible for the rich benthic community. The outcome of the present study may be useful as baseline information on macrobenthos around the proposed Jaitapur NPP site.		[Sivaperumal, P.; Khot, M.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Jaiswar, A. K.] ICAR Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Panch Marg,Yari Rd, Mumbai 400061, India; [Pawase, A.] Coll Fisheries, Ratnagiri 415629, Maharashtra, India; [Sivaperumal, P.] Saveetha Univ, Saveetha Dent Coll & Hosp, Saveetha Inst Med & Tech Sci, Cellular & Mol Res Ctr,Marine Biomed Res Lab, Chennai 600077, Tamil Nadu, India; [Sivaperumal, P.] Saveetha Univ, Saveetha Dent Coll & Hosp, Saveetha Inst Med & Tech Sci, Cellular & Mol Res Ctr,Environm Toxicol Unit, Chennai 600077, Tamil Nadu, India; [Jaiswar, A. K.] ICAR Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Panch Marg,Yari Rd, Mumbai 400061, India								0							Oceanography	WOS:000864604000006		
J	Kamal, Md Abu Hena Mostofa; Abu Kawsar, Md.; Pandit, Debasish; Kunda, Mrityunjoy; Tabassum, Khushnud; Alam, Md. Tariqul								Fish Biodiversity at Kawadighi <i>Haor</i> of Northeastern Bangladesh: Addressing Fish Diversity, Production and Conservation Status								AQUATIC SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING				37	3			151	160		10.26650/ASE202221065255			2022	2022	This research was conducted to explore the status of fish species diversity and production in the Kawadighi Haor of northeastern Bangladesh. Data were collected biweekly through direct catch assessment surveys, focus group discussions, and personal interviews using a questionnaire. A total of 87 fish and prawn species belonging 14 orders and 30 families were identified in the Haor, where 18% species were abundantly available, 20% were commonly available, 42% were moderately available and 20% were rarely available. Among the recorded species, Cypriniformes, having 34 species, had the most species, followed by Siluriformes (20), Anabantiformes (11), Ovalentaria (4), Synbranchiformes (4), Clupeiformes (3), Decapoda (3), Osteoglossiformes (2), Anguilliformes (1), Beloniformes (1), Cyprinodontiformes (1), Gobiiformes (1), Mugiliformes (1), and Tetraodontiformes (1). The values of Shannon-Weaver diversity (H), Margalef's richness (d), and Pielou's evenness (J) indices were 2.98, 7.72 and 0.67 in Hawagulaia, 2.97, 7.52 and 0.67 in Patasingra and 2.61, 7.30 and 0.59 in Salkatua beel, respectively. The haor's average yearly fish production was 704.09 kg/ha. Small indigenous species (SIS) of fish dominated the haor's total production, accounting for 51.8 to 70.57 percent of the total contribution. The highest portion of fish produced in the non-stocked beel was SIS of fish but per hectare SIS of fish production of non-stocked beel was lower than the fingerling stocked beels. Aquaculture might have a good effect on fish production and biodiversity. The findings showed that Kawadighi Haor is a very productive and biodiversity-rich inland open waterbody that may function as a mother fishery. For the protection of current fisheries resources, multiple approaches including public awareness campaigns might be beneficial.		[Kamal, Md Abu Hena Mostofa; Abu Kawsar, Md.; Tabassum, Khushnud; Alam, Md. Tariqul] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Sylhet, Bangladesh; [Pandit, Debasish; Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet, Bangladesh; [Alam, Md. Tariqul] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Sylhet, Bangladesh								4							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000825204100005		
J	Tikadar, Kishor Kumar; Kunda, Mrityunjoy; Mazumder, Sabuj Kanti								Diversity of fishery resources and catch efficiency of fishing gears in Gorai River, Bangladesh								HELIYON				7	12					e08478	10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e08478			DEC 2021	2021	Gorai River is one of the important rivers in Bangladesh for rich aquatic biodiversity. The river is originated from the Ganges-Padma River system, a trans-boundary river between India and Bangladesh. Once the river was rich in fish biodiversity, but due to man-made and natural causes the availability of fish reduced drastically. A comprehensive analysis of fish diversity indices, gear efficiency, catch composition and decline causes of fish diversity in Gorai River, Bangladesh was accomplished. The data were collected on monthly basis from January to December 2018 from three major fishing sites of the river. A total of 62 fish and 2 prawn species under 12 orders and 24 families were recorded. Cypriniformes was the leading order consisting 27% of the total catch. The mean values of Shannon-Weaver diversity (H'), Simpson's index (1-D), Margalef's richness (d) and Pielou's evenness (J') indices were recorded as, 1.478 +/- 0.495, 0.57 +/- 0.197, 15.115 +/- 4.435 and 0.481 +/- 0.152, respectively. At the similarity of 58.7%, two groups were attained in the cluster analysis and the Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (nMDS) showed 40% similarity among the three sites in twelve months based on the Bray-Curtis similarity matrix. The highest and lowest CPUE were recorded from seine net (5.2 +/- 1.72 kg gear(-1) haul(-1)) and hook & long lines (0.0135 +/- 0.0015 kg gear(-1) haul(-1)), respectively whereas, highest and lowest gear efficiency were recorded from lift net (0.321 +/- 0.036 kg gear(-1) person(-1 )hour(-1)) and fish trap (0.0005 +/- 0.0002 kg gear(-1 )person(-1) hour(-1)), respectively. Alternatively, the highest fish catch was recorded on April (21228 +/- 464.38 kg) and lowest on August (3855 +/- 138.21 kg). According to the fishermen fish biodiversity of the Gorai River declined day by day due to overexploitation, destructive fishing practice, pollution, construction of obstacles for fish movement, and natural causes like siltation. Proper implementation of fish acts and regulations, use of authorized fishing gear, community-based fisheries management, sanctuary establishment and management, stocking of fish fingerling, and raising public awareness can play a great role in enhancing and conserving fish biodiversity in the Gorai River of Bangladesh.		[Tikadar, Kishor Kumar] Khulna Agr Univ, Dept Fishery Resources Conservat & Management, Khulna 9100, Bangladesh; [Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh; [Mazumder, Sabuj Kanti] Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Agr Univ, Dept Genet & Fish Breeding, Gazipur 1706, Bangladesh; [Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh								10							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000748925400024		
J	Nwinyimagu, Amaechi Joshua; Eyo, Joseph Effiong; Okogwu, Okechukwu Iduma								Seasonal variation in abundance and diversity of zooplankton in Asu River, Ebonyi state, Nigeria								ACTA ECOLOGICA SINICA				41	6			591	596		10.1016/j.chnaes.2021.08.009			DEC 2021	2021	The Physicochemical variables and Zooplankton of Asu River, Ebonyi State, Nigeria were studied monthly between October 2013 and June 2014 which covered the wet and dry seasons. The study was carried out monthly in two selected sites by collecting water samples for physiochemical analysis and zooplankton identification. Shannon-Weiner diversity and Margalef's indices were used to determine the zooplankton composition. Investigation on the physiochemical variables showed that water temperature, dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, pH, conductivity and carbon (iv) oxide all recorded maximum values in the dry season. The present result also showed that the river is not seriously polluted. However, only carbon (iv) oxide and nitrate varied significantly between seasons (p < 0.05). Forty two (42) zooplankton species comprising Rotifera (7 families; 23 species), Copepoda (2 families; 8 species) and Cladoceran (6 families; 11 species) were identified. Rotifera spp. were numerically dominant and the most diverse group but the crustacean, Thermocyclops oithonoides dominated the total zooplankton biomass during the study. Species abundance showed inverse relationship with species richness, Shannon-Weiner diversity and Evenness. Zooplankton abundance was at its peak in the dry season while species richness, Shannon- Weiner diversity and evenness increased from dry season to wet season.		[Nwinyimagu, Amaechi Joshua; Okogwu, Okechukwu Iduma] Ebonyi State Univ, Dept Appl Biol, PMB 53, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Nigeria; [Eyo, Joseph Effiong] Univ Nigeria, Dept Zool & Environm Biol, Nsukka, Enugu State, Nigeria; [Nwinyimagu, Amaechi Joshua] Ebonyi State Univ, Dept Appl Biol, PMB 53, Abakaliki, Ebonyi State, Nigeria								1							Ecology	WOS:001138182800054		
J	Mazur, Andrzej; Witkowski, Radoslaw; Kuzminski, Robert; Jaszczak, Roman; Turski, Mieczyslaw; Kwasna, Hanna; Lakomy, Piotr; Szmyt, Janusz; Adamowicz, Krzysztof; Labedzki, Andrzej								The Structure of Saproxylic Beetle Assemblages in View of Coarse Woody Debris Resources in Pine Stands of Western Poland								FORESTS				12	11					1558	10.3390/f12111558			NOV 2021	2021	Background: Resources of dying and dead trees, decaying fragments of stems, stumps and branches, i.e., coarse woody debris (CWD), are an important structural element of biocenoses and are drivers of biodiversity. The aim of this study was to describe assemblages of saproxylic beetles in pine stands of western Poland in view of dead wood resources. We present faunistic (species identity) and quantitative (species and individual counts) data from two types of stands: 1. unmanaged pine stands, in which no trees have been extracted for over 30 years, with processes connected with tree dying and self-thinning of stands being undisturbed, 2. managed pine stands, in which routine tending operations extracting trees are performed in accordance with forest management plans and naturally dying trees are removed in the course of tending and sanitary logging; Methods: Beetles were captured in the years 2013-2014 using window flight traps. Assemblages of saproxylic beetles were assessed based on the indices of dominance, diversity (the Shannon-Weiner index), and species richness (Margalef's index) as well as the estimated habitat fidelity index, feeding habits, and zoogeographical distribution. Similarity between the assemblages was evaluated applying cluster analysis. Dependence between dead wood resources and the diversity and species richness indices were analysed; Results: A total of 2006 individuals classified to 216 species were captured. Assemblages show considerable similarity on the local scale. Higher values of species diversity indicators were observed in unmanaged stands, in which no sanitation cuttings are performed; Conclusions: The decision to refrain from sanitation logging in pine monocultures results in increased CWD resources, which nevertheless does not lead to a marked increase in the values of biodiversity indicators. Unmanaged stands were characterised by a high share of zoophagous, mycetophagous, and saproxylic species. In contrast, managed stands were characterised by a high share of xylophagous beetles.		[Mazur, Andrzej; Witkowski, Radoslaw; Kuzminski, Robert; Kwasna, Hanna; Lakomy, Piotr; Labedzki, Andrzej] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Entomol & Pathol, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Jaszczak, Roman; Turski, Mieczyslaw] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Management Planning, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Szmyt, Janusz] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Silviculture, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Adamowicz, Krzysztof] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Econ & Technol, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland; [Mazur, Andrzej] Poznan Univ Life Sci, Dept Forest Entomol & Pathol, PL-60625 Poznan, Poland								4							Forestry	WOS:000725750300001		
J	Thakur, Shinny; Negi, Vikram S.; Dhyani, Rupesh; Bhatt, I. D.; Yadava, A. K.								Influence of environmental factors on tree species diversity and composition in the Indian western Himalaya								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				503						119746	10.1016/j.foreco.2021.119746			JAN 1 2022	2022	Understanding patterns in forest communities and its driving factors play a critical role in ecological studies. In view of this, present study attempts to understand the role of environmental and anthropogenic factors towards shaping species diversity and composition along the altitudinal gradient (700-3800 m asl) in Indian western Himalaya. A total of 51 tree species (28 families) were recorded; Pinaceae (5) and Fagaceae (5) were the species rich families. alpha-diversity indices i.e., Margalef's richness index (R), Shannon index (HMODIFIER LETTER PRIME) and Simpson index showed a humped shaped distribution, whereas Evenness index (E) showed an inverted humped shaped distribution along the altitude range. Based on non-metric dimensional scaling (NMDS), four different community types were identified. Redundancy analysis (RDA) revealed a strong relationship of tree species composition with environmental (41.73% variation) and anthropogenic factors (17.35% variation). RDA further indicated that the bulk density (BD), disturbance index (DI), mean diurnal temperature range (Bio2) and solar radiation (SR) are significantly associated with sub-tropical (below 1200 m) and lower temperate forest (1200-1700 m) types. Likewise, soil organic carbon (SOC), precipitation of the driest quarter (Bio17) and pH were significantly associated with upper temperate (1700-2900 m), and subalpine forest composition (>2900 m). Both NMDS classification and RDA ordination clearly demonstrate spatial variability in composition of tree community and environmental properties.		[Thakur, Shinny; Negi, Vikram S.; Dhyani, Rupesh; Bhatt, I. D.] GB Pant Natl Inst Himalayan Environm NIHE, Ctr Biodivers Conservat & Management, Kosi Katarmal, Uttarakhand, India; [Thakur, Shinny; Yadava, A. K.] SSJ Univ, Dept Forestry & Environm Sci, Almora, Uttarakhand, India; [Negi, Vikram S.] GB Pant Natl Inst Himalayan Environm NIHE, Ctr Biodivers Conservat & Management, Kosi Katarmal, Uttarakhand, India								11							Forestry	WOS:000717770700004		
J	Wang, Qiuxuan; Song, Li; Agusti, Susana; Duarte, Carlos; Christakos, George; Wu, Jiaping								Changes of the Macrobenthos Community with Non-native Mangrove Rehabilitation (<i>Kandelia obovata</i>) and Salt Marsh Invasion (<i>Spartina alterniflora</i>) in Ximen Island, Zhejiang, China								OCEAN SCIENCE JOURNAL				56	4			395	405		10.1007/s12601-021-00037-9			DEC 2021	2021	Macrobenthos organisms are vital ecological components of intertidal wetlands. This work studied effects of non-native mangrove rehabilitation (Kandelia obovata) and salt marsh invasion (Spartina alterniflora) on macrobenthos communities in Ximen Island (Zhejiang, China). The macrobenthos communities were compared between rehabilitated K. obovata forests of five different stand ages (2-, 8-, 11-, 16-, and 60-year-old) and adjacent S. alterniflora marsh and non-vegetated mudflat. Compared to the mudflat, S. alterniflora increased the abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), and Margalef's richness index (d') of macrobenthos. Gastropoda abundance was high in the S. alterniflora marsh, whereas, malacostraca biomass was low. Within mangrove forests, macrobenthos abundance was positively correlated with the stand age of mangroves (Spearman Correlation, P < 0.05), but the corresponding H', d' and Pielou's evenness index (J') showed negative correlations. Gastropoda dominated over macrobenthos in the younger stands (2-11 years in age), whereas, phascolosomatidea and bivalvia were more abundant in the older stands (16 and 60 years in age). Noticeably, the highest biomass for malacostraca was recorded from the 11-year-old stand. Macrobenthos communities differed among habitats, with the divergence in community structure between the S. alterniflora marsh and mangrove stands increasing with mangrove stand age, to be significantly different for stands planted over 16 years ago. Since the 16-year-old stand exhibited similar macrobenthos features to the 60-year-old stand, we speculated that, in the case of macrobenthos, a rehabilitated K. obovata forest can reach its maturity level at a time period of about 15 years in Ximen Island.		[Wang, Qiuxuan; Song, Li; Christakos, George; Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China; [Agusti, Susana; Duarte, Carlos] King Abdullah Univ Sci & Technol, Red Sea Res Ctr, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia; [Christakos, George] San Diego State Univ, Dept Geog, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China								10							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000710870000001		
J	Bayen, Supriti; Mohanty, Trupti Rani; Chanu, Thangjam Nirupada; Johnson, Canciyal; Tiwari, Nitish Kumar; Manna, Ranjan Kumar; Swain, Himanshu Sekhar; Das, Basanta Kumar								Influence of riverine connectivity on phytoplankton abundance and diversity of associated wetlands of River Ganga: A comparative study of an open and a closed wetland								AQUATIC ECOSYSTEM HEALTH & MANAGEMENT				24	4			34	45		10.14321/aehm.024.04.06			OCT-DEC 2021	2021	River connectivity is often described as a key requirement for maintaining the health and biodiversity of associated wetlands of rivers. A comparative study was undertaken to understand the influence of river connectivity on plankton diversity and abundance in an open (Chharaganga Beel) and a closed wetland (Kalobaur Beel) situated on the banks of River Ganga in West Bengal, India. During the present investigation, data revealed that the major groups of phytoplankton recorded were Cyanobacteria (33.12%), Bacillariophyta (29.07%), and Chlorophyta (22.34%) from the open wetland, and Bacillariophyta (47.40%), Euglenozoa (30.68%), and Chlorophyta (10.12%) from the closed one. Shannon diversity (H') and Margalef's species richness index indicate that phytoplankton diversity in the Chharaganga ecosystem was higher than in Kalobaur Beel. A one-way ANOVA showed significant station-wise difference for water turbidity (p<0.05) in both of the beels, and student t test revealed that differences in physico-chemical parameters between the studied beels was statistically significant (p<0.05) for depth, turbidity, conductivity, total hardness, nitrate, total N, phosphate-P, silicate, Ca2+, Mg(2+)and chlorophyll a,whereas abundance of phytoplankton groups was significantly different for Bacillariophyta (p<0.05) and Euglenozoa (p<0.05). The positive correlation of total N with Euglenozoa (r=0.496; p<0.05) might be the cause of favourable conditions for a higher abundance of Euglenozoa in the closed Kalobaur Beel,which is on the verge of partial eutrophication. The hydrological flushing by river water in the Chharaganga wetland maintains the ecological stability. Therefore, restoration of river connectivity is recommended to improve the health of the disconnected wetlands.		[Bayen, Supriti; Mohanty, Trupti Rani; Chanu, Thangjam Nirupada; Johnson, Canciyal; Tiwari, Nitish Kumar; Manna, Ranjan Kumar; Swain, Himanshu Sekhar; Das, Basanta Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Das, Basanta Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000771730800006		
J	Ochocka, Agnieszka								ZIPLA<sub>S</sub>: Zooplankton Index for Polish Lakes' Assessment: a new method to assess the ecological status of stratified lakes								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				193	10					664	10.1007/s10661-021-09390-7			OCT 2021	2021	Zooplankton is widely recognized as a key component of pelagic ecosystems and forms the basis for major trophic webs. Although zooplankton has often been used as an indicator of trophic state, it has not been included as an obligatory element of the water assessment systems compliant with the Water Framework Directive. This article introduces the Zooplankton Index for Polish Lakes' Assessment (ZIPLA(S)) as a new method to assess the ecological status of stratified lakes based on the zooplankton community. The ZIPLA(S) evaluates three aspects of zooplankton communities, namely, taxonomic composition and abundance, diversity of the zooplankton community, and stressor-sensitive species, which are combined into a multimetric index. Following are the metrics used to compose multimetric ZIPLA(S): percentage share of the Rotifer species indicative of high trophy in the indicative group's number (IHTROT; %), ratio of Calanoida to Cyclopoida individual numbers (CA/CY), percentage of tecta form in the population of Keratella cochlearis (TECTA; %), Margalef's index (d), and zooplankton abundance (NZOL; ind./L). ZIPLA(S) responds clearly to eutrophication indicators-the strongest with Secchi disc visibility (Spearman's rank correlation R = 0.86) and slightly weaker with the expressed by total phosphorus (R = -0.74), total nitrogen (R = 0.68) and the catchment pressure expressed by the nutrient loads generated by different types of land use (R = -0.58).		[Ochocka, Agnieszka] Natl Res Inst, Dept Freshwater Protect, Inst Environm Protect, Krucza 5-11D, PL-00548 Warsaw, Poland; [Ochocka, Agnieszka] Natl Res Inst, Dept Freshwater Protect, Inst Environm Protect, Krucza 5-11D, PL-00548 Warsaw, Poland								7							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000697178400002		
J	Wale, Melaku; Abdella, Sofia								Butterfly Diversity and Abundance in the Middle Afromontane Area of Northwestern Ethiopia								PSYCHE-A JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY				2021						8805366	10.1155/2021/8805366			SEP 2 2021	2021	Butterflies are good indicators of environmental health, and they play a critical role in the food chain. Butterfly diversity and abundance were studied for the first time at three forests and their surrounding habitats in northwestern Ethiopia, a borderline ecosystem between the subtropical savannah and the Ethiopian highlands (Afromontane). Butterfly species richness and abundance were assessed using transects between October 2018 and June 2019. Data were analyzed using analysis of variance, correlation and regression analysis, diversity indices, ordination analysis, cluster analysis, and rarefaction curves. A total of 27,568 butterflies were recorded that belonged to three families, five subfamilies, and eight genera. The forest habitat had more butterfly taxa (abundance and diversity) than other habitats. Belenois spp. and Mylothris agathina were the most abundant in all three study locations. Species common to all study areas include Belenois aurota, Belenois raffrayi, Mylothris agathina, Eronia leda, Junonia terea elgiva, and Phalanta eurytis neuritis. Forest edge and woody forest habitats were the richest in terms of both number of species and number of individuals. Equitability (Pielou's index) showed equal distribution of the species, i.e., 0.8 to 0.9, except at the open grassland at Tara Gedam (0.3). Margalef's index varied between habitats and locations showing differences in species richness (from 0.25 at the woody forest of Mount Bezawit to 0.86 at the forest edge of Tara Gedam). Ordination analyses also showed that associations existed between habitats, locations, and dates of sampling. Rarefaction curves rose quickly at the forest edge and woody forest habitats compared to other forests. The cluster analysis discriminated the different habitats. Populations declined during the dry season (December to April). In conclusion, butterfly species diversity and abundance varied with respect to habitat and sampling date (season), although less diverse than other regions in the country where natural forests still widely exist. Butterfly species must be regularly monitored, and their habitats must be preserved for the health of the entire ecosystem.		[Wale, Melaku] Bahir Dar Univ, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Abdella, Sofia] Enfranz Secondary Sch, North Gondar, Ethiopia; [Wale, Melaku] Bahir Dar Univ, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia								0							Entomology	WOS:000695312700001		
J	Johnson, Canciyal; Sarkar, Uttam Kumar; Koushlesh, Satish Kumar; Das, Archan Kanti; Das, Basanta Kumar; Naskar, Bablu Kumar								Fish assemblage, ecosystem status and potential impact of Nile Tilapia in Halali Reservoir of Central India								ENVIRONMENT DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY				24	6			7753	7775		10.1007/s10668-021-01756-8			JUN 2022	2022	The pattern of spatial fish assemblage, diversity, habitat, and potential impact of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) was studied in a tropical reservoir of central India during June 2018-July 2019. A total of 21 species under six orders nine families and 18 genera were recorded which is comparatively low than previous records. The fish abundance similarity showed a maximum similarity of 78% between site 1 and site 3 clusters. The results of species composition showed increased abundance of O. niloticus species (> 80%) in the fishery and have now established feral population in the reservoir. The mean Simpson dominance index (1 - lambda), the Shannon diversity index (H '), Pielou's evenness index (J ') and Margalef's richness index (d) were determined for three different sites followed by Mann-Whitney U test which showed a significant difference at spatial scale. Bray-Curtis cluster analysis of physicochemical parameters showed a similarity of 96% between site 1 and site 2. Comparison with the previous study three physicochemical parameters (total alkalinity, total hardness and chloride) showed the considerable changes. Relationships between fish assemblages and environmental parameters were examined by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Six physicochemical parameters (i.e., DO, pH, Nitrate, Mg, Phosphate and Silicate) showed statistically significant to shaping fish diversity (p < 0.05). The high value of dissolved oxygen coupled with low biochemical oxygen demand and other nutrient levels indicates that the water body is moderately oligotrophic in nature. The responsible factors for declining indigenous fish population and threats are discussed. The study recommends specific management measures which could be useful to develop a sustainable fishery practice vis-a-vis conservation of fish diversity.		[Johnson, Canciyal; Sarkar, Uttam Kumar; Koushlesh, Satish Kumar; Das, Archan Kanti; Das, Basanta Kumar; Naskar, Bablu Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Sarkar, Uttam Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India								5							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000685771600001		
J	Bhatta, Kishor Prasad; Aryal, Anisha; Baral, Himlal; Khanal, Sujan; Acharya, Amul Kumar; Phomphakdy, Chanthavone; Dorji, Rinzin								Forest Structure and Composition under Contrasting Precipitation Regimes in the High Mountains, Western Nepal								SUSTAINABILITY				13	13					7510	10.3390/su13137510			JUL 2021	2021	The high mountains stretch over 20.4% of Nepal's land surface with diverse climatic conditions and associated vegetation types. An understanding of tree species and forest structural pattern variations across different climatic regions is crucial for mountain ecology. This study strived to carry out a comparative evaluation of species diversity, main stand variables, and canopy cover of forests with contrasting precipitation conditions in the Annapurna range. Firstly, climate data provided by CHELSA version 1.2, were used to identify distinct precipitation regimes. Lamjung and Mustang were selected as two contrasting precipitation regions, and have average annual precipitation of 2965 mm and 723 mm, respectively. Stratified random sampling was used to study 16 plots, each measuring 500 m(2) and near the tree line at an elevation range of 3000 to 4000 m across different precipitation conditions. In total, 870 trees were identified and measured. Five hemispherical photos using a fisheye lens were taken in each plot for recording and analyzing canopy cover. Margalef's index was used to measure species richness, while two diversity indices: the Shannon-Wiener Index and Simpson Index were used for species diversity. Dominant tree species in both study regions were identified through the Important Value Index (IVI). The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was employed to determine the differences in forest structure and composition variables between the two precipitation regimes. In total, 13 species were recorded with broadleaved species predominating in the high precipitation region and coniferous species in the low precipitation region. Higher species richness and species diversity were recorded in the low precipitation region, whereas the main stand variables: basal area and stem density were found to be higher in the high precipitation region. Overall, an inverse J-shaped diameter distribution was found in both precipitation regions signifying uneven-aged forest. A higher proportion of leaning and buttressed trees were recorded in the high precipitation region. However, similar forest canopy cover conditions (>90%) were observed in both study regions. The findings of this research provide a comprehensive narrative of tree species and forest structure across distinct precipitation regimes, which can be crucial to administrators and local people for the sustainable management of resources in this complex region.		[Bhatta, Kishor Prasad; Phomphakdy, Chanthavone; Dorji, Rinzin] Georg August Univ, Fac Forest Sci & Forest Ecol, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany; [Aryal, Anisha] Tech Univ Dresden, Fac Environm Sci, D-01737 Dresden, Germany; [Baral, Himlal] Ctr Int Forestry Res CIFOR, Jalan CIFOR, Bogor 16115, Indonesia; [Baral, Himlal] Univ Melbourne, Sch Ecosyst & Forest Sci, Parkville, Vic 3010, Australia; [Khanal, Sujan] Nepal FECOFUN, Federat Community Forestry Users, Duwakot 44800, Nepal; [Acharya, Amul Kumar] Forest Res & Training Ctr, Kathmandu 44600, Nepal; [Bhatta, Kishor Prasad] Georg August Univ, Fac Forest Sci & Forest Ecol, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany								4							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000671971400001		
J	Wang, Yu; Liu, Juan-juan; Li, Bao-long; Liu, Wei; Zuo, Yi-feng; Kong, De-xing; Zhu, Jia-le								Relationships between characteristics of macrobenthic assemblages and environmental variables in the Heihe River Basin, China								AQUA-WATER INFRASTRUCTURE ECOSYSTEMS AND SOCIETY				70	5			710	730		10.2166/aqua.2021.022			AUG 2021	2021	To clarify the characteristics of macrobenthic assemblages and their response to the aquatic environment in the upper and middle reaches of the Heihe River, water quality, sediments and macrobenthos measurements were conducted in the summers of 2018 and 2019. The results showed that 50 species of macrobenthos were identified, belonging to 3 phyla, 7 classes, 15 orders and 32 families, mainly arthropods (37 species) and mollusks (11 species). Argyroneta aquatica, Chlaznius sp., dragonfly nymphs, Palaemon modestus, Radix auricularia, Cyraulus albus and Suecinea sp. were the dominant species in the whole study region; most of these are pollution-tolerant and moderately tolerant species. The macrobenthos density and biomass ranged from 10 to 577 ind./m(2) and from 0.0907 to 50.0562 g/m(2), respectively, showing high spatial heterogeneity. Predators were the main functional feeding group. One-way analysis of variance clarified that Margalef's index and the Shannon-Wiener index differed significantly among the spatial areas (P < 0.05). Canonical correspondence analysis showed that the spatial heterogeneity of the macrobenthos was affected by the water temperature and the total nitrogen and total phosphorus in sediments (P < 0.05).		[Wang, Yu; Liu, Juan-juan; Li, Bao-long; Zuo, Yi-feng; Kong, De-xing; Zhu, Jia-le] Lanzhou Univ Technol, Coll Energy & Power Engn, Lanzhou 730050, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yu; Liu, Wei] Chinese Acad Sci, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Key Lab Ecohydrol Inland River Basin, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yu] Lanzhou Univ Technol, Coll Energy & Power Engn, Lanzhou 730050, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yu] Chinese Acad Sci, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Key Lab Ecohydrol Inland River Basin, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China								2							Engineering, Civil; Water Resources	WOS:000674408200001		
J	Kaushal, Siddhartha; Siwach, Anshu; Baishya, Ratul								Diversity, regeneration, and anthropogenic disturbance in major Indian Central Himalayan forest types: implications for conservation								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				30	8-9			2451	2480		10.1007/s10531-021-02203-w			JUL 2021	2021	Understanding community structure together with regeneration and disturbance provides a holistic purview of forest health and the necessary management implications essential for conservation. These aspects were studied independently or under specific elevational zone in Central Himalayas; therefore, this study was undertaken to understand the key relations and to access the status of major protected Central Himalayan forest types. The parameters were accessed using standard quadrat technique in eight major reserved and protected forest types along an elevational gradient (333-3375 m). Tropical moist deciduous forest had the highest stem density (457 tree ha(-1)), species richness (21 species), richness index (Margalef's index: 3.67) and diversity index (Shannon-Wiener index: 2.63). Quercus semecarpifolia-Rhododendron arboreum association forest had the highest total basal area (94.75 m(2) ha(-1)). Species predominantly showed clumped dispersion pattern. Climax Himalayan species viz. Shorea robusta, Quercus oblongata, and Abies spectabilis have poor regeneration which have modified the community into decreasing to unimodal distribution. Total basal area explained 71.9% (p < 0.001) of the total variation in species dominance. Species richness, diversity, and evenness indices showed strong significant positive correlations which are also evident in the species-sequence curves with species diverse sites having wider spread. Anthropogenic surface fires in sub-tropical Pine forest while grazing and lopping for fuelwood requirements in temperate and sub-alpine forests are major disturbance parameters. The results signify that these forests have not yet attained maximum diversity. Monitoring the regeneration of important native and climax species along with co-operation from local communities is key for efficient management of these forests.		[Kaushal, Siddhartha; Siwach, Anshu; Baishya, Ratul] Univ Delhi, Dept Bot, Ecol & Ecosyst Res Lab, Delhi 110007, India; [Baishya, Ratul] Univ Delhi, Dept Bot, Ecol & Ecosyst Res Lab, Delhi 110007, India								9							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000655839600003		
J	Lu, Kangle; Batzer, Darold P.; Wu, Haitao								Aquatic invertebrate assemblages during the spring-thaw season in wetlands of Northeastern China								HYDROBIOLOGIA				848	17			3943	3953		10.1007/s10750-021-04615-9			OCT 2021	2021	Identifying the character and importance of invertebrates in thawing wetlands is useful, since they are the main food resource for migratory waterfowl during spring. We investigated aquatic invertebrate composition in the spring-thaw and compared it with the summer in wetlands of the Sanjiang Plain, China. NMDS analysis showed that the composition of aquatic invertebrates in the spring-thaw is significantly different from in summer. Aquatic invertebrate diversity (including Shannon-Wiener index; Margalef's species richness; Pielou's evenness) was lower in the spring-thaw, and Network analyses indicated that it was a simpler community. Indicator species were different between spring-thaw and summer. The scraper functional feeding group (i.e., snails) dominated both seasons, but especially in the spring-thaw. Snails and other invertebrates such as asellid crustaceans abounded in spring, are rich in both calcium and protein, making them to be an especially important food source for migratory waterfowl. Therefore, the spring-thaw should be a focus when assessing aquatic invertebrate function for waterfowl production.		[Lu, Kangle; Wu, Haitao] Chinese Acad Sci, Northeast Inst Geog & Agroecol, Key Lab Wetland Ecol & Environm, 4888 Shengbei St, Changchun 130102, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Lu, Kangle] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Batzer, Darold P.] Univ Georgia, Dept Entomol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Wu, Haitao] Chinese Acad Sci, Northeast Inst Geog & Agroecol, Key Lab Wetland Ecol & Environm, 4888 Shengbei St, Changchun 130102, Jilin, Peoples R China								1							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000652911200002		
J	da Costa, Larissa Pinto; Marinho, Reynaldo Amorim; de Lima Conceicao, Raimundo Nonato; Freitas, Lilia Freire								Diversity of fish caught in fishing pens at Moitas beach, Amontada, (Ceara, Brazil)								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF HYGIENE AND ANIMAL SANITY				15	2									APR-JUN 2021	2021	Artisanal fishing is characterized as a small-scale activity, which uses few technological instruments and is generally practiced as a means of subsistence, generating an income for the fisherman and adding a quality protein to his diet. The fishing corrals are among the fishing techniques used by artisanal fishermen throughout the Brazilian coast. The coast of Ceara, Brazil, has adequate characteristics for the installation of fishing corrals, being widely used by fishermen in the region. As in other beaches on the west coast of Ceara, such as in the municipalities of Acaran, Camocim and Paracuru, Moitas beach, in the municipality of Amontada, also uses fishing corrals to catch fish. Due to the great diversity of species caught with this fishing technique, it is necessary to carry out studies that can assist in its fishing order and maintenance of stocks, in addition to knowing the diversity of resources, the stocks that can be capture, among others. In view of the above, this study aims to determine the diversity of fish caught in fishing corrals, at Moitas beach, Amontada, CE. In addition to estimating the composition of the captured sample that is susceptible to fishing traps, verifying the variation in richness over the study period and evaluating the variation in diversity and abundance of species in the same period. The specimens of fish caught in the corrals of the study area were collected from April to December 2020, in monthly campaigns, totaling 9 campaigns, carried out at a time established by the fishermen, usually in the period of low tide, so as not to interfere in their work routine. After collection, the specimens were identified through works and manuals for the identification of marine species. 1,087 individuals were identified, distributed in 2 Classes, 4 Orders, 14 families and 22 species. The most abundant species were Eugerres brasilianus, Selene vomer and Mugil incilis. All the ecological indexes used indicated the fishing corrals of Moitas beach as areas of medium biodiversity of fish caught, presenting Shannon-Wiener diversity (H '= 2.10 nats / individual), Pielou equitability (J' = 0, 67) and Margalef s wealth (DMg = 3.00).		[Marinho, Reynaldo Amorim; de Lima Conceicao, Raimundo Nonato; Freitas, Lilia Freire] Univ Fed Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Marinho, Reynaldo Amorim] Univ Fed Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil								0							Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000672287200001		
J	Park, Jong-Myong; Hong, Ji-Won; You, Young-Hyun; Kim, Jong-Guk								Endophytic Fungi of Emersed Halophytes in River Deltas and Tidal Flats of the Korean Ramsar Wetlands								JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING				9	4					430	10.3390/jmse9040430			APR 2021	2021	This study aimed to obtain information on the diversity and distribution of the endophytic fungi in Ramsar wetlands. Vast salt marshes in Suncheon Bay, Korea, are formed by two types of ecotones (tidal flats and deltas) that are supported by the emersed halophytes Phragmites australis and Suaeda japonica. Overall, 324 endophytes were isolated from P. australis (six sampling points in the delta and five in the tidal flats) and S. japonica (six in tidal flats). Margalef's, Menhinick's, Shannon's, and Simpson's diversity indices significantly varied among the ecotones. In particular, higher variance in diversity value and unevenness was observed in the delta marsh compared with the tidal flat marsh. Further, morphological diversity in the delta salt marsh was 1.8 times higher than that of the tidal flat. Comprising several dominant genera (Aspergillus, Cladosporium, and Penicillium), Epicoccum, Paraconiothyrium, Septoriella, and Talaromyces were widely distributed regardless of the aquatic conditions or halophyte species. This study highlights the distinct distribution and diversity of marine endophytes in various ecotones that can physically protect the coastal areas. This data is of much value to secure a national culture collection for future restoration of the coastal wetlands and their ecosystems.		[Park, Jong-Myong] Water Qual Res Inst, Waterworks Headquarters Incheon Metropolitan City, Incheon 21316, South Korea; [Park, Jong-Myong] Incheon Metropolitan City Inst Publ Hlth & Enviro, Incheon 22320, South Korea; [Hong, Ji-Won] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Dept Hydrogen & Renewable Energy, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Microorganism Resources Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Kim, Jong-Guk] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Sch Life Sci, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Microorganism Resources Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Kim, Jong-Guk] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Sch Life Sci, Daegu 41566, South Korea								2							Engineering, Marine; Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000643109900001		
J	Cui Chunyan; Zhang Zhinan; Hua Er								Meiofaunal Community Spatial Distribution and Diversity as Indicators of Ecological Quality in the Bohai Sea, China								JOURNAL OF OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA				20	2			409	420		10.1007/s11802-021-4550-5			APR 2021	2021	The Bohai Sea is a semi-enclosed marginal sea in the North West Pacific. Meiofauna samples were collected from 22 stations in the Bohai Sea to document the spatial distribution, structure, and diversity of the meiofaunal community and investigate the major factors influencing the community features. A total of 20 higher taxa of meiofauna were identified. The dominant group was Nematoda, accounting for 90.8% of the total meiofaunal abundance on average, followed by Copepoda, Bivalvia, Polychaeta, Kinorhyncha, and Ostracoda. Meiofaunal abundance ranged from 121 +/- 89 ind (10 cm(2))(-1) to 3042 +/- 1054 ind (10 cm(2))(-1). Diversity indices also varied among different stations, with a Margalef's richness index (d) of 1.1-3.1, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H ') of 0.7-1.8, and Pielou's evenness index (J ') of 0.4-0.8. Meiofaunal abundance and diversity indices were significantly lower in the areas of Bohai Bay and adjacent to Laizhou Bay. The correlation analysis showed that meiofaunal abundance and diversity indices are closely linked to variations in sediment silt-clay content, medium grain size (MD phi), and chlorophyll-a concentrations. The ecological quality status of most stations can be ranked from poor to moderate based on meiofaunal richness. According to the value of nematode to copepod ratio (Ne:Co ratio), most stations are uncontaminated, except seven stations are slightly or moderately contaminated. Both meiofaunal richness and Ne:Co ratio indicate the poor ecological quality of three stations adjacent to Laizhou Bay. The efficiency of the meiofauna communities as environmental indicators will be tested in a greater area in the future studies.		[Cui Chunyan; Zhang Zhinan; Hua Er] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China; [Hua Er] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China								6							Oceanography	WOS:000626662500017		
J	Dalton, W. N.; Porter, S. N.; Livingstone, T-C; Mann, B. Q.								Demersal fish communities in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, indicate partial congruence with proposed conservation biozones								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE				43	1			31	44		10.2989/1814232X.2020.1862913			JAN 2 2021	2021	The KwaZulu-Natal shelf, on the east coast of South Africa, is inhabited by diverse communities of demersal fishes; however, previous studies deeper than 30 m have largely investigated these with extractive techniques. Using baited remote underwater videos (BRUVs), this study quantified how depth and substrate type correlated with the composition of demersal fish communities between 35 and 100 m, and assessed whether the communities displayed congruence with three benthic biozones, which were modelled using abiotic surrogates for purposes of conservation planning: Biozone 1 (warm; coarse sediment dominant; low seafloor oxygen, phosphate and organic carbon concentrations), Biozone 2 (flat; coarse sediment dominant; high seafloor oxygen and low phosphate and organic carbon concentrations) and Biozone 3 (shallow; warm; fine sediment dominant; low seafloor oxygen and higher organic carbon concentrations). A total of 118 fish taxa were recorded from 200 BRUV deployments conducted on different substrate types. All diversity indices differed significantly among substrate types, whereas depth correlated significantly with only the number of fish species per site and Margalef's diversity index. Multivariate analyses determined that substrate type and depth explained significant amounts of the variation in fish communities. A significant difference was also detected between the fish communities of Biozones 1 and 3, with Biozone 3 being the most distinct of the three biozones investigated. Overall congruence between fish communities and their associated biozones ranged between 41% and 45%. This suggests that, at a broad spatial scale, the demersal fish communities could be adequately represented by Biozone 3 and a second biozone comprising Biozones 1 and 2 combined.		[Dalton, W. N.; Porter, S. N.; Mann, B. Q.] South African Assoc Marine Biol Res, Oceanog Res Inst ORI, Durban, South Africa; [Dalton, W. N.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Durban, South Africa; [Livingstone, T-C] Ezemvelo KwaZulu Natal Wildlife, Sci Serv, Pietermaritzburg, South Africa; [Dalton, W. N.] South African Assoc Marine Biol Res, Oceanog Res Inst ORI, Durban, South Africa; [Dalton, W. N.] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, Durban, South Africa								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000626987700001		
J	Samraj, J. M.; Agnihotri, Meena								Impact of land use pattern and seasonality on butterfly diversity in a sub-tropical Terai arc landscape (TAL), Pantnagar, Uttarakhand (India)								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				62	2			301	310		10.1007/s42965-021-00150-9			JUN 2021	2021	Species diversity and richness of butterflies in habitats constituted by different land-use patterns were studied in the Terai region of Pantnagar for 2 years from Nov 2017 to Dec 2019. A total of 92 species of butterflies belonging to 66 genera and five families were documented from three different habitats viz., inhabited settlement, agricultural land and secondary forest. Family Nymphalidae (34.13%) dominated over Lycaenidae (28.88%), Pieridae (26.20%), Papilionidae (8.76%) and Hesperiidae (4.04%). Among the different species of butterflies, Pseudozizeeria maha was the most dominant butterfly with 6.09% relative abundance followed by Pieris canidia (5.20%), Eurema hecabe (4.86%), Ariadne merione (3.42%), Catopsilia pomona (3.21%) and Luthrodes pandava (3.01%). Diversity and evenness indices viz., Margalef's index (D-mg), Shannon diversity index (H') and Pielou's J revealed a greater diversity in undisturbed secondary forest rich in host and nectar plant than the habitat intervened with crop cultivation. Three-factorial ANOVA showed a significant variation in abundance of butterfly concerning months, site and butterfly families. Pearson's correlation showed the existence of a positive correlation between butterfly abundance and weather parameters viz., maximum temperature, morning and evening relative humidity and rainfall. The results obtained indicate that the Pantnagar region holds a splendid diversity of butterflies and the diversity is altered by different land-use pattern. Regular survey and monitoring of the region are suggested for conservation and documenting the changing biodiversity.		[Samraj, J. M.; Agnihotri, Meena] Govind Ballabh Pant Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Entomol, Udham Singh Nagar 263145, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Samraj, J. M.] Govind Ballabh Pant Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Entomol, Udham Singh Nagar 263145, Uttar Pradesh, India								0							Ecology	WOS:000620408900001		
J	Bufebo, Belayneh; Elias, Eyasu; Getu, Emana								Abundance and diversity of soil invertebrate macro-fauna in different land uses at Shenkolla watershed, South Central Ethiopia								JOURNAL OF BASIC AND APPLIED ZOOLOGY				82	1					11	10.1186/s41936-021-00206-1			FEB 1 2021	2021	BackgroundLand use can exert a strong influence on the abundance, diversity, and community composition of soil macro-fauna. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of four land use types on the abundance and diversity of soil invertebrate macro-fauna communities. These land uses include forest land, grazing land, crop cultivated outfields, and homestead garden fields present at Shenkolla watershed, south central Ethiopia. Monolith sampling of soil macro-fauna was done according to the standard of Tropical Soils Biology and Fertility Institute (TSBF) procedure. Five sampling points were chosen in each land use type and small monolith (25 x 25 x 30cm) was dug out at 5-m interval along a transect with randomly positioned starting point, but perpendiculars to the slope. A total of 20 monoliths (4 treatments x5 replications) were taken across all the land use types. Sampling of SIMF was carried out in April 2019 where soil macro-faunas are known to be more active. To evaluate the SIMF community eight parameters were measured: Shannon-Wiener index, Simpson diversity index, Pielou's measure of evenness, Margalef's diversity index, the Number of Occurrence Index, Relative abundance, Density (individuals per square meter) of each taxon and density of all SIMF and Bray-Curtis similarity index. The data were further analyzed using ANOVA and a general linear model to determine the variation and the influence of land use type, respectively.ResultsIn general, 332 individuals, 10 orders, 12 families, and 15 species were identified, from the collected samples. There were significant differences (p <0.05) among the four land use types for SIMF except wireworm, spiders, and millipedes. Overall abundance and diversity were lowest in the crop cultivated outfields and highest in homestead garden fields and forest land. Bray-Curtis' similarity was highest between the sampled sites s16 and s19 with in the forest land, and lowest (2%) between sites s1 (crop cultivated out fields) and s14 (homestead garden fields).ConclusionThe results revealed that the diversity of SIMF was positively influenced by forest land and homestead garden fields and negatively influenced in grazing land and cultivated outfields. Therefore, maintenance of a continuous litter cover at the surface and application of a wide range of organic fertilizers (farmyard manure, household refuse, and compost) is very much critical to prevent the decrease in diversity of SIMF.		[Bufebo, Belayneh] Wachemo Univ, Dept Nat Resource Management, POB 667, Hosanna, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh; Elias, Eyasu] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Ctr Environm Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Getu, Emana] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Zool, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh] Wachemo Univ, Dept Nat Resource Management, POB 667, Hosanna, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Ctr Environm Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia								6							Biology	WOS:001009630400001		
J	Wang, Yu; Liu, Juan-Juan; Liu, Wei; Feng, Qi; Li, Bao-long; Lu, Han; Wang, Shuang								Spatial variation in macrobenthic assemblages and their relationship with environmental factors in the upstream and midstream regions of the Heihe River Basin, China								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				193	2					53	10.1007/s10661-020-08822-0			FEB 2021	2021	The Heihe River is a typical inland river under increasing anthropogenic pressure. To explore the characteristics of the macrobenthic assemblages and their relationships with environmental factors in the upstream and midstream regions of this basin, abiotic conditions and macrobenthic assemblages were investigated in the summers of 2018 and 2019. A total of 50 species were collected, and Arthropoda and mollusks were the dominant groups. A significant increase in standing stock was observed from the upstream to midstream, and predators (PR) were the main functional feeding group. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed that the Shannon-Wiener index and Margalef's index values significantly differed at the spatial scale (P < 0.05). A redundancy analysis (RDA) and Pearson correlation analysis showed that the spatial heterogeneity of the macrobenthos was influenced by the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5), water temperature (WT), total nitrogen (TN), salinity, electrical conductivity (EC), total dissolved solids (TDS), dissolved oxygen (DO), and potassium permanganate index (CODMn) (P < 0.05). The spatial variation of macrobenthos was mainly governed by natural conditions and human disturbances.		[Wang, Yu; Liu, Juan-Juan; Li, Bao-long; Lu, Han; Wang, Shuang] Lanzhou Univ Technol, Coll Energy & Power Engn, Lanzhou 730050, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yu; Liu, Wei; Feng, Qi] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Ecohydrol Inland River Basin, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Wang, Yu] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Ecohydrol Inland River Basin, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China								11							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000606746700001		
J	Aziz, Md. Saifullah Bin; Hasan, Neaz A.; Mondol, Md. Mostafizur Rahman; Alam, Md. Mehedi; Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul								Decline in fish species diversity due to climatic and anthropogenic factors in Hakaluki Haor, an ecologically critical wetland in northeast Bangladesh								HELIYON				7	1					e05861	10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e05861			JAN 2021	2021	This study evaluates changes in fish species diversity over time in Hakaluki Haor, an ecologically critical wetland in Bangladesh, and the factors affecting this diversity. Fish species diversity data were collected from fishers using participatory rural appraisal tools and the change in the fish species diversity was determined using Shannon-Wiener, Margalef's Richness and Pielou's Evenness indices. Principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted with a dataset of 150 fishers survey to characterize the major factors responsible for the reduction of fish species diversity. Out of 63 fish species, 83% of them were under the available category in 2008 which decreased to 51% in 2018. Fish species diversity indices for all 12 taxonomic orders in 2008 declined remarkably in 2018. The first PCA (climatic change) responsible for the reduced fish species diversity explained 24.05% of the variance and consisted of erratic rainfall (positive correlation coefficient 0.680), heavy rainfall (-0.544), temperature fluctuation (0.561), and beel siltation (0.503). The second PCA was anthropogenic activity, including the use of harmful fishing gear (0.702), application of urea to harvest fish (0.673), drying beels annually (0.531), and overfishing (0.513). Finally, the third PCA was loaded with the fishermen age (0.719), education (-0.767), and fishing experience (0.695) of the fishers. Deepening of beels could enhance dry season water availability and shelter the fish. Imposing fisheries regulations to reduce human activities is inevitable to sustain haor fisheries.		[Aziz, Md. Saifullah Bin; Mondol, Md. Mostafizur Rahman] Univ Rajshahi, Dept Fisheries, Rajshahi, Bangladesh; [Hasan, Neaz A.; Alam, Md. Mehedi; Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul] Bangladesh Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Mymensingh, Bangladesh; [Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul] Bangladesh Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Mymensingh, Bangladesh								31							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000618042500005		
J	Kosari, S.; Nadushan, Mousavi R.; Fatemi, M. R.; Khanghah, Ejlali K.; Mashinchian, A.								Macrobenthos as bioindicator of ecological status in the Yekshabe creek-estuary, Persian Gulf								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				20	2			514	528		10.22092/ijfs.2021.123874			2021	2021	The present study was conducted with the aim of identification of macrobenthos in the Yekshabe estuary in Persian Gulf. Sampling of macrobenthos was performed from spring 2015 for one year. It was carried out seasonally by the Van Veen Grab (0.04 m(2)) at four stations, with three replications. The identified macrobenthos belonged to 51 families, 70 genera, 80 species, 4 classes (including Polychaeta, Malacostraca, Bivalvia, Gastropoda) and 5 Phyla. The average total density of macrobenthos was 760 +/- 614 per square meter. The most frequently observed classes of macrobenthos belonged to Polychaeta (67.8%), Malacostraca (18.5%), Bivalvia (11.6%) and Gastropoda (1.2%), respectively. According to the results of the Kruskal-Wallis test, there was no significant difference between the macrobenthos classes among the different sampling stations. The highest values of the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity (3.07) and the Margalef's richness index (4.66) were observed in spring, whereas the highest value of the Pielou's evenness index (0.95) was observed in autumn. The values of all indices at station 4 were the highest as compared to those of the others. The results of ANOVA test showed that the mean values of the indices were significantly different (p<0.05) in different seasons, whereas the mean values were not significantly different at stations		[Kosari, S.; Fatemi, M. R.; Mashinchian, A.] Islamic Azad Univ, Fac Nat Resources & Environm, Dept Marine Sci, Sci & Res Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Nadushan, Mousavi R.] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Tehran North Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Khanghah, Ejlali K.] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Iranian Fisheries Sci Res Inst IFSRI, Persian Gulf & Oman Sea Ecol Res Ctr, Bandar Abbas, Iran; [Nadushan, Mousavi R.] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Tehran North Branch, Tehran, Iran								8							Fisheries	WOS:000640800500006		
J	Mahadik, Shashibhushan B.; Godase, Dadasaheb G.; Patil, Supriya M.; Pisal, Srushti, V; Jadhav, Prakash S.; Warake, Sarita B.								REANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF URBANIZATION ON BIRD SPECIES DIVERSITY AROUND AMRAVATI								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL AND STATISTICAL SCIENCES				16	2			509	517					DEC 2020	2020	This paper analyzes the impact of urbanization on the diversity of bird species near the city of Amravati, India. The secondary data used for analysis consist of counts of the bird species sampled over the four stages along an urbanization gradient, namely, the rural forest area, peri-urban area, suburban area, and urban area. Exploratory data analysis and analysis of variance show that the urbanization significantly impacts the diversity of bird species in the region. The richness of species decreases with an increasing level of urbanization while the evenness in the urban area is substantially lower than that in other urbanization stages. The overall diversity significantly weakens with the higher stage of urbanization. The species in the region can be classified into notably different groups according to their abundance distribution along an urbanization gradient. The comfort zone of most of the species is the rural forest area. However, some species have adapted themselves to the urbanization to the extent that their comfort zones are the higher urbanization stages.		[Mahadik, Shashibhushan B.; Godase, Dadasaheb G.; Patil, Supriya M.; Pisal, Srushti, V; Jadhav, Prakash S.; Warake, Sarita B.] Shivaji Univ, Dept Stat, Kolhapur 416004, Maharashtra, India; [Godase, Dadasaheb G.] Shivaji Univ, Dept Stat, Kolhapur 416004, Maharashtra, India								2							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000600021000003		
J	Iqbal, Mazher Farid; Liu, Ming-Chao; Iram, Aafia; Feng, Yu-Long								Effects of the invasive plant <i>Xanthium strumarium</i> on diversity of native plant species: A competitive analysis approach in North and Northeast China; Competitive approach of invasive cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium) with native weed species diversity in Northeast China								PLOS ONE; PLOS ONE				15	11					e0228476	10.1371/journal.pone.0228476			NOV 19 2020	2020	Xanthium strumarium is native to North America and now has become one of the invasive alien species (IAS) in China. In order to detect the effects of the invader on biodiversity and evaluate its suitable habitats and ecological distribution, we investigated the abundance, relative abundance, diversity indices, and the number of the invasive and native plants in paired invaded and non-invaded quadrats in four locations in North and Northeast China. We also analyzed the effects of monthly mean maximum and minimum temperatures, relative humidity (%), and precipitations (mm). Strong positive significant (P < 0.01) correlation and maximum interspecific competition (41%) were found in Huailai between invaded and non-invaded quadrats. Shannon's Diversity Index showed that non-invaded plots had significantly (P < 0.05) more diversified species than invaded ones. The significant (P < 0.05) Margalef's Richness Index was found in Huailai and Zhangjiakou in non-invaded recorded heterogeneous nature of plant communities. Similarly, significant (P < 0.05) species richness found in Huailai and Zhangjiakou in non-invaded quadrats compared to invaded ones. Maximum evenness of Setaria feberi (0.47, 0.37), Seteria viridis (0.43) found in Fushun and Zhangjiakou recorded more stable in a community compared to other localities. Evenness showed positive relationship of Shannon Entropy within different plant species. The higher dissimilarity in plant communities found in Huailai (87.06%) followed by Yangyuan (44.43%), Zhangjiakou (40.13%) and Fushun (29.02%). The significant (P < 0.01) value of global statistics R (0.943/94.3%) showed high species diversity recorded in Huailai followed by Zhangjiakou recorded by non-metric multidimensional scaling and analysis of similarity between invaded and non-invaded plots. At the end it was concluded that the diversity indices reduced significantly (P < 0.05) in invaded quadrats indicated that native plant species become less diverse due to X. strumarium invasion. The degrees of X. strumarium invasion affected on species richness resulted to reduce diversity indices significantly in invaded quadrats.		[Iqbal, Mazher Farid; Liu, Ming-Chao; Feng, Yu-Long] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Biosci & Biotechnol, Liaoning Key Lab Biol Invas & Global Changes, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Iram, Aafia] Govt Punjab Educ Dept, Gujranwala, Punjab, Pakistan; [Feng, Yu-Long] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Biosci & Biotechnol, Liaoning Key Lab Biol Invas & Global Changes, Shenyang, Liaoning, Peoples R China								11							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000603518300001		
J	Zhao, Meihong; Liu, Qinghe; Zhang, Dongsheng; Liu, Zhensheng; Wang, Chunsheng; Liu, Xiaoshou								Deep-sea meiofauna assemblages with special reference to marine nematodes in the Caiwei Guyot and a Polymetallic Nodule Field in the Pacific Ocean								MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN				160						111564	10.1016/j.marpolbul.2020.111564			NOV 2020	2020	Meiofauna particularly marine nematodes around the Caiwei Guyot in the northwest Pacific Ocean and a Polymetallic Nodule Field in the northeast Pacific Ocean were studied. Due to the geographic structure, the Caiwei Guyot and the Polymetallic Nodule Field had different environmental characteristics. Meiofaunal abundances around the Guyot area ranged from 9.18 to 25.59 ind./10 cm(2), which were much lower than those in the Polymetallic Nodule Field. Marine nematode was the most dominant group. A total of 123 species, be-longing to 74 genera and 29 families were found. Xyalidae (21.43%), Cyatholaimidae (9.82%), Linhomoeidae (8.03%) were the dominant families. The values of species number, Margalef's species richness and Shannon Wiener diversity index ranged from 15 to 62, 4.75 to 12.84 and 2.58 to 3.93, respectively. The combination of water depth, silt-clay content and chlorophyll-a concentration can best explain the differences of nematode community. This study provides a baseline for deep-sea meiofauna distribution.		[Zhao, Meihong; Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Meihong; Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Liu, Qinghe; Zhang, Dongsheng; Liu, Zhensheng; Wang, Chunsheng] MNR, Inst Oceanog 2, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst Dynam, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Dongsheng; Wang, Chunsheng] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Zhuhai, Zhuhai 519080, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000587626000010		
J	Gunathilaka, Nayana; Ranasinghe, Koshila; Amarasinghe, Deepika; Rodrigo, Wasana; Mallawarachchi, Harendra; Chandrasena, Nilmini								Molecular Characterization of Culturable Aerobic Bacteria in the Midgut of Field-Caught <i>Culex tritaeniorhynchus</i>, <i>Culex gelidus</i>, and <i>Mansonia annulifera</i> Mosquitoes in the Gampaha District of Sri Lanka								BIOMED RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL				2020						8732473	10.1155/2020/8732473			OCT 5 2020	2020	Background. Larval and adult mosquito stages harbor different extracellular microbes exhibiting various functions in their digestive tract including host-parasite interactions. Midgut symbiotic bacteria can be genetically exploited to express molecules within the vectors, altering vector competency and potential for disease transmission. Therefore, identification of mosquito gut inhabiting microbiota is of ample importance before developing novel vector control strategies that involve modification of vectors.Method. Adult mosquitoes ofCulex tritaeniorhynchus,Culex gelidus, andMansonia annuliferawere collected from selected Medical Officer of Health (MOH) areas in the Gampaha district of Sri Lanka. Midgut lysates of the field-caught non-blood-fed female mosquitoes were cultured in Plate Count Agar medium, and Prokaryotic 16S ribosomal RNA partial genes of the isolated bacteria colonies were amplified followed by DNA sequencing. Diversity indices were used to assess the diversity and richness of the bacterial isolates in three mosquito species. The distribution pattern of bacterial isolates between different mosquito species was assessed by Distance-Based Redundancy Analysis (dbRDA).Results. A total of 20 bacterial species (Staphylococcus pasteuri,Bacillus megaterium,Staphylococcus cohnii,Pantoea dispersa,Staphylococcus chromogenes,Bacillus aquimaris,Staphylococcus arlettae,Staphylococcus sciuri,Staphylococcus warneri,Moraxella osloensis,Enterobactersp.,Klebsiella michiganensis,Staphylococcus hominis,Staphylococcus saprophyticus,Streptomycessp.,Bacillus niacin,Cedecea neteri,Micrococcus luteus,Lysinibacillus sphaericus, andBacillus licheniformis) were identified. All of these species belonged to three phyla,Proteobacteria,Firmicutes, andActinobacteria, out of which phylumFirmicutes(71.1%) was the most prominent. The least number of species was recorded fromActinobacteria. The relative distribution of midgut microbes in different mosquito species differed significantly among mosquito species (Chi-square,chi 2=486.091;df=36;P <= 0.001). Midgut microbiota ofCx. tritaeniorhynchusandCx. gelidusindicated a similarity of 21.51%, whileMa. annuliferashared a similarity of 6.92% with the cluster of above two species. The gut microbiota ofCx. tritaeniorhynchuswas also significantly more diverse and more evenly distributed compared toMa. annulifera.Simpson's diversity, Margalef's diversity, and Menhinick's diversity indices were higher inCx. gelidus. Of the recorded species,P. dispersaand strains of nonpathogenic species inBacillaceaefamily (B. megaterium,B. niacini,B. licheniformis, andL. sphaericus) can be recommended as potential candidates for paratransgenesis.Conclusion. The relative distribution of midgut microbes in different mosquito species differed significantly among the three studied adult mosquito species. The present data strongly encourage further investigations to explore the potential usage of these microbes through paratransgenic approach for novel eco-friendly vector control strategies.		[Gunathilaka, Nayana; Chandrasena, Nilmini] Univ Kelaniya, Fac Med, Dept Parasitol, Ragama, Sri Lanka; [Ranasinghe, Koshila; Amarasinghe, Deepika] Univ Kelaniya, Fac Sci, Dept Zool & Environm Management, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Rodrigo, Wasana] Ind Technol Inst, Biotechnol Unit, Colombo 07, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Mallawarachchi, Harendra] Med Res Inst, Dept Parasitol & Med Entomol, Colombo 08, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Gunathilaka, Nayana] Univ Kelaniya, Fac Med, Dept Parasitol, Ragama, Sri Lanka								1							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Medicine, Research & Experimental	WOS:000584637300013		
J	Parisi, Francesco; Lombardi, Fabio; Marziliano, Pasquale Antonio; Russo, Diego; De Cristofaro, Antonio; Marchetti, Marco; Tognetti, Roberto								Diversity of saproxylic beetle communities in chestnut agroforestry systems								IFOREST-BIOGEOSCIENCES AND FORESTRY				13				456	465		10.3832/ifor3478-013			OCT 2020	2020	Chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) has been exploited over the centuries for different uses. Nowadays, chestnut is mostly managed as coppice or orchard, creating a matrix of different forest structures. In particular, saproxylic species may provide information to correlate forest naturalness with stand structure. In this study, we evaluated how different management methods might influence the diversity of beetles hosted in chestnut agroforestry systems. Three management options were considered: young and mature coppice stands, and the traditional fruit orchard. Microhabitats occurring on veteran trees were also surveyed to investigate their effect on saproxylic communities, in the fruit orchard. The study area is located in Southern Italy, Aspromonte National Park, where Coleoptera were collected using window flight traps and the stand structural traits were also quantified. In the fruit orchard, a census of the occurring microhabitats was also realized. We used the following diversity indeces (alpha-diversity) to assess the state of conservation of the analysed forests: (i) Shannon Index; (ii) Margalef's Richness index; (iii) Equitability index; (iv) Dominance index. Results revealed that forest management have a fundamental role in influencing the diversity of Coleoptera communities and saproxylic beetles. A lower species richness was observed in the mature coppice in comparison with the young coppice and fruit orchard. Nevertheless, these agroforestry systems, reflecting differentiated structural traits, allowed the development of highly specialized and threatened species (34.3% included in IUCN risk categories), with important contribution to conservation of biodiversity in the rural landscape. Finally, the abundance and diversity of microhabitats in the traditional fruit orchard had positive effects on many saproxylic beetle families. These beetle communities, particularly saproxylic species, can be used as excellent bioindicators in actively managed agroforestry systems, suggesting sustainable forest management options for chestnut, while the conservation of veteran trees rich in microhabitats can be considered fundamental for preserving many endangered insects.		[Parisi, Francesco; De Cristofaro, Antonio; Tognetti, Roberto] Univ Molise, Dipartimento Agr Ambiente & Alimenti, V De Sanctis, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy; [Parisi, Francesco; Tognetti, Roberto] Univ Firenze, GeoLAB Lab Geomat Forestale, Dipto Sci & Tecnol Agr Alimentari Ambientali & Fo, V San Bonaventura 13, I-50145 Florence, Italy; [Lombardi, Fabio; Marziliano, Pasquale Antonio; Russo, Diego; Tognetti, Roberto] Univ Mediterranea Reggio Calabria, Dipartimento Agr, I-89122 Reggio Di Calabria, Italy; [Marchetti, Marco; Tognetti, Roberto] Univ Molise, Dipartimento Biosci & Terr, I-86090 Pesche, IS, Italy; [Tognetti, Roberto] Edmund Mach Fdn, EFI Project Ctr Mt Forests MOUNTFOR, V E Mach 1, I-38010 San Michele All Adige, TN, Italy; [Parisi, Francesco] Univ Molise, Dipartimento Agr Ambiente & Alimenti, V De Sanctis, I-86100 Campobasso, Italy; [Parisi, Francesco] Univ Firenze, GeoLAB Lab Geomat Forestale, Dipto Sci & Tecnol Agr Alimentari Ambientali & Fo, V San Bonaventura 13, I-50145 Florence, Italy								16							Forestry	WOS:000582597900001		
J	Tran, T. T.; Nguyen, Y. M. T.; Pham, L. T.; Veettil, B. K.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.								Relationships between environmental variables and free-living nematode communities in seasonally flooded wetlands								GLOBAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND MANAGEMENT-GJESM				6	4			509	522		10.22034/gjesm.2020.04.07			FAL 2020	2020	The Lo Go-Xa Mat is a national park in the southeastern region of Vietnam, which has a particularly high biodiversity and it includes different wetlands which are unique diverse in species composition. It can be categorized into two types: temporarily-seasonally and permanently flooded wetlands. Ta Not grassy marsh is representative of the seasonally flooded wetland. Whilst the diversity and ecology of plants and mammals are well documented, little or no information of the benthic ecology in the seasonally flooded wetland exist. This study aims to provide a new database of the nematode's structure in the seasonally flooded wetland and its relation with environmental variables as well as detection of the ecological quality, considering nematodes as bioindicators. This work is the first investigation on nematodes communities in associate with some environmental variables in the Ta Not grassy marsh. The results showed that free-living nematodes in the Ta Not seasonally flooded grassy marsh are characterized by the high density (ranged from 235.01 to 898.43 inds.10cm(-2)) but rather low diversity. More specifically, the genus richness (S) ranged from 8.20 to 8.60. The observed Margalef's species richness (d) was ranging from 1.07 to 1.53 and the Shannon-Wiener index (H') was measured from 2.36 to 2.52. In addition, the Pielou's evenness (J') ranged from 0.55 to 0.68 and the Hill indices indicated average values ranging between 5.46-5.84 for N-1, between 4.32-4.60 for N-2, and between 2.64-2.86 for N-inf. Specifically, our results indicated that deep level, pH, and NH4+ showed a significant correlation with the nematode density and bio-indices. The sediment of the Ta Not grassy marsh was assessed as in good conditions in all stations based on the Maturity Index of nematodes. (C) 2020 GJESM. All rights reserved.		[Tran, T. T.; Nguyen, Y. M. T.; Pham, L. T.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Trop Biol, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Pham, L. T.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.] Grad Univ Sci & Technol, Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam; [Veettil, B. K.] Duy Tan Univ, Inst Fundamental & Appl Sci, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Veettil, B. K.] Duy Tan Univ, Fac Informat Technol, Da Nang 550000, Vietnam; [Ngo, Q. X.] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Trop Biol, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Ngo, Q. X.] Grad Univ Sci & Technol, Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000570746100007		
J	Iqbal, Mazher Farid; Feng, Yu-Long								Species diversity of different insect families trapped under beer-based volatile fermentation								BMC CHEMISTRY				14	1					48	10.1186/s13065-020-00699-x			AUG 9 2020	2020	BackgroundInsect species composition is an important phenomenon playing a significant role in the ecosystem. Chemical control of insects and pests releases toxic materials to the environment. These chemicals are dangerous to human populations. In this situation, there is a dire need to develop strategies to overcome the haphazard use of chemicals. The present investigations were carried out to explore the diversity of different insects attracted through bait fermentation.MethodsThe traditionally prepared bait fermentation was used to attract different insect populations both in treated (traps installed near field crops) and control traps (traps installed near invasive weed). Abundance, evenness, richness and equitability of these trapped insects were calculated. The chemical screening of bait fermentation was done using Gas Chromatography and Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS).ResultsSignificant difference (P<0.05) in abundance of insect populations was found in treated compared to control trap. The insects of Noctuidae family recorded high Shannon- Wiener's diversity index followed by Muscidae. Margalef's index was recorded maximum in the treated traps (10.77) compared to those of control (8.09). The yielded index indicated that maximum richness was found in bait treated compared to control. The Shannon's equitability's values were investigated higher in Noctuidae (1.48), while, maximum evenness was observed in Muscidae (2.05) in treated trap. This fermentation was dried at room temperature and ground at 0.1 micron size. Our result showed significant (P<0.05) effects of extraction times, with high yield in first extraction by polar solvents. Co-efficient of determination (R-2=0.87) recorded similar results in both extractions, however high root mean square error (0.97) recorded with bait+distilled water solvent showed linear arc line gave better performance. Finally, this fermentation was analyzed using GC-MS and recorded volatile compounds that were involved in the attraction of major and minor pests.ConclusionFermentation can help for the attraction of different families of insects of various crops. The field experiment suggested that this fermentation is economical, easily installed and consumed only 0.64 RMB/0.09 USD, including infrastructures per location. Bait fermentation is safe biochemical constituents and did not spread any toxic chemicals to the environment.		[Iqbal, Mazher Farid; Feng, Yu-Long] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Biosci & Biotechnol, Liaoning Key Lab Biol Invas & Global Changes, Shenyang 110866, Liaoning, Peoples R China; [Iqbal, Mazher Farid] Adapt Res, Gujranwala 52330, Punjab Province, Pakistan; [Feng, Yu-Long] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Biosci & Biotechnol, Liaoning Key Lab Biol Invas & Global Changes, Shenyang 110866, Liaoning, Peoples R China								2							Chemistry, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000561743100002		
J	Zhao, Xingli; Hu, Zhenjie; Hou, Dianyun; Xu, Huawei; Song, Peng								Biodiversity and antifungal potential of endophytic fungi from the medicinal plant<i>Cornus officinalis</i>								SYMBIOSIS				81	3			223	233		10.1007/s13199-020-00696-7			JUL 2020	2020	Endophytic fungi are not only ubiquitous in plants, but also play an important role in the balancing of plant microecosystems. Numerous studies have shown that plant species and environment have a significant influence on the richness of endophytic fungi, and endophytic fungi often provide different forms of fitness benefits to their associated host plants. The present work aimed to isolate and identify endophytic fungi harboured in the tissues of the native medicinal plantCornus officinalisand screen beneficial fungi to inhibit cornel pathogens. A total of 208 strains were recovered from 720 tissue segments. The overall colonisation and isolation rates of endophytic fungi were 33.89% and 28.89%, with triennial twigs (53.33%, 55%) and fruits (6.67%, 3.33%) having the highest and lowest rates, respectively. On the basis of morphological characteristics and internal transcribed spacer sequence analysis, 183 isolates were classified into 13 genera. Amongst them,Alternaria,BotryosphaeriaandTalaromyceswere dominant communities, and their relative abundances were 31.25%, 26.92% and 10.10%, respectively. A detailed calculation of the Shannon diversity (H ' = 1.65) and Margalef's richness indices (Dmg = 2.30) revealed that the overall biodiversity of fungal endophytes inC. officinaliswas relatively high, with the stems harbouring the highest diversity. The antagonism assay of 75 representative endophytes on the four main fungal pathogens ofC. officinalisindicated that nine strains with antibiosis and eight strains with inhibition rate of more than 50% were obtained by the dual culture. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that investigated the distribution and antifungal activity of endophytic fungi from the medicinal plantC. officinalis.		[Zhao, Xingli; Hou, Dianyun; Xu, Huawei; Song, Peng] Henan Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Agr, Luoyang 471000, Peoples R China; [Hu, Zhenjie] Henan Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Forestry, Luoyang 471000, Peoples R China; [Hu, Zhenjie] Henan Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Forestry, Luoyang 471000, Peoples R China								11							Microbiology	WOS:000547805400001		
J	Akhi, Most Mahmuda; Jewel, Md Abu Sayed; Haque, Md Ayenuddin; Sarker, Biplob Kumer; Khatun, Mst Samsad; Paul, Alok Kumar; Islam, M. Shahanul; Das, Simon Kumar								Multivariate approaches to determine the relationship between fish assemblage structure and environmental variables in Karatoya River, Bangladesh								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				21	2			171	181		10.1007/s42974-020-00015-6			JUL 2020	2020	Karatoya River is an important freshwater system that is home to different types of fish species. In the present study, the seasonal abundance and diversity indices of fish assemblage and their relationship with physicochemical parameters were studied. Fifty-four fish species were recorded from four stations for 12 months. The highest number of fish was recorded during the post-monsoon season and the lowest was recorded in the monsoon season. Analysis of similarity evidenced a significant difference (P < 0.05) in species abundance among the seasons. Similarity percentage analysis showed that the overall average dissimilarity among the three seasons was 73.53%, and six species were responsible for this dissimilarity. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination plot based on similarity indicated that the monsoon season completely differed from the other two seasons (pre-monsoon and post-monsoon) in terms of fish abundance. The values of Shannon-Wiener diversity, Margalef's richness, and Pielou's evenness indices varied from season to season. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to identify the most important water quality parameters influencing the seasonal variation of fish assemblage structure and to reveal the remarkable roles of alkalinity, total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, and dissolved oxygen in the Karatoya River in Bangladesh. This study provides essential baseline information on the relationship between the environmental parameters and fish diversity in freshwater habitats in Bangladesh.		[Akhi, Most Mahmuda; Jewel, Md Abu Sayed; Haque, Md Ayenuddin; Sarker, Biplob Kumer; Khatun, Mst Samsad; Paul, Alok Kumar] Univ Rajshahi, Fac Agr, Dept Fisheries, Rajshahi 6205, Bangladesh; [Islam, M. Shahanul] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Food Engn & Biotechnol, TEDA, 29,13th Ave, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Earth Sci & Environm, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Marine Ecosyst Res Ctr, Bangi, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Earth Sci & Environm, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Marine Ecosyst Res Ctr, Bangi, Malaysia								5							Ecology	WOS:000538977300001		
J	Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Dai, Fangqun; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao; Sun, Jianqiang								Effects of latitude gradient and seasonal variation on the community structure and biodiversity of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and the northern East China Sea								MARINE LIFE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY				2	2			146	154		10.1007/s42995-020-00026-2			MAY 2020	2020	To evaluate the spatio-temporal variations in the community structure and biodiversity of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and the northern East China Sea (NECS), the seasonal and regional changes in species composition, biomass structure, biodiversity and distribution of commercially important species were analyzed using bottom trawl survey data during 2014-2015. The results showed that the latitudinal gradient was obvious in species richness, dominant species and biodiversity. The indices of biodiversity increased with the decreasing latitude. When the sampling sites shifted south by one latitudinal degree, Margalef's richness index (D), Pielou's evenness index (J ') and Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H ') increased by 0.10, 0.03 and 0.09, respectively. The biomass proportion of the cold-temperate species represented by Crangon affinis declined with the decreasing latitude, and the warm-temperate species represented by Ovalipes punctatus and Portunus trituberculatus increased. Because of the growth regulation of crustaceans and the fishing moratorium, the biomass of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and NECS was highest in October and August, respectively. Salinity had a more significant influence on H ' of commercially important crustaceans than other environmental factors (including zooplankton density, sea bottom temperature and water depth). Overall, the results of this study contribute to a better understanding of community dynamics of crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and NECS, and provide evidence to verify the latitudinal gradient theory in biodiversity.		[Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Dai, Fangqun; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao; Sun, Jianqiang] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Key Lab Sustainable Dev Marine Fisheries, Shandong Prov Key Lab Fishery Resources & Ecoenvi, Minist Agr, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China; [Jin, Xianshi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Key Lab Sustainable Dev Marine Fisheries, Shandong Prov Key Lab Fishery Resources & Ecoenvi, Minist Agr, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Jin, Xianshi] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000649453600005		
J	Karuppasamy, K.; Jawahar, P.; Kingston, S. David; Venkataramani, V. K.; Vidhya, V.								Elasmobranch diversity, conservation and management along Wadge Bank, South India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF ANIMAL RESEARCH				54	3			367	372		10.18805/ijar.B-3778			MAR 2020	2020	The study was undertaken to document the elasmobranch diversity and their abundance along Wadge Bank. Species were collected fortnightly during June 2015 to May 2016 from three landing centres viz., Chinnamuttom,Colachel and Vizhinjam of Wadge Bank. A total of 1,575 specimens were collected during the period and 44 species were identified belonging to 8 orders, 13 families and 25 genera. Among the recorded \families,Carcharhinidae is the most dominant family with 12 species. The Colachel landing centre was rich in diversity with 43 species followed by Chinnamuttom 39 species and Vizhinjam26 species. The highest Shannon Weiner diversity (H' value) was observed at Colachel (4.17) followed by Chinnamuttom (4.11) and Vizhinjam (3.76). The Margalef's species richness ('d') value was assessed at Colachel (4.55) followed by Chinnamuttom (4.01) and Vizhinjam (2.91). The Pielou's evenness (J') estimated was 0.7786, 0.7700 and 0.8005respectively, for Chinnamuttom, Colachal and Vizhinjam. The highest taxonomic diversity value was observed at Colachel (60.33) and the lowest during at Vizhinjam (54.08). Among the three landing centres studied, the total phylogenetic diversity (sPhi+) was found to be the lowest at Vizhinjam (940) and highest at Colachel landing centre (1720). Bray Curtis similarities measure was also calculated, fish communities were separated into several dusters based on seasons. The conservation of elasmobranchs and the management measures to be followed along the Wadge Bank is also discussed.		[Karuppasamy, K.; Jawahar, P.; Kingston, S. David; Vidhya, V.] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Tuticorin 628008, Tamil Nadu, India; [Venkataramani, V. K.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Kochi 682506, Kerala, India; [Karuppasamy, K.] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Tuticorin 628008, Tamil Nadu, India								3							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000522456700019		
J	Rajini, Sollepura B.; Nandhini, Murali; Udayashankar, Arkere C.; Niranjana, Siddapura R.; Lund, Ole S.; Prakash, Harischandra S.								Diversity, plant growth-promoting traits, and biocontrol potential of fungal endophytes of <i>Sorghum bicolor</i>								PLANT PATHOLOGY				69	4			642	654		10.1111/ppa.13151			MAY 2020	2020	The diversity of fungal endophytes in Sorghum bicolor was investigated in samples collected from 10 different geographical regions of Karnataka state, India. A total of 360 endophytes were isolated from leaf, stem, and root tissues and were assigned to 26 fungal species based on morphology and molecular characterization using ITS sequences. All the endophytes belonged to the phylum Ascomycota. The diversity (Shannon H, 2.57; Simpson_1-D, 0.92) and species richness (Margalef's, 4.68; Menhinick, 3.61) were found to be higher for the endophytes isolated from leaf tissues. The species evenness of the endophytic assemblage was strongly influenced by tissue type, followed by geographical location. The biocontrol potential of isolated endophytes was evaluated against economically destructive sorghum grain mould pathogens such as Fusarium thapsinum, Epicoccum sorghinum, Alternaria alternata, and Curvularia lunata using the dual culture method. Biocontrol potential was exhibited by 26 endophytic isolates, of which Trichoderma asperellum recorded broad-spectrum activity against target pathogens, followed by E. nigrum and A. longipes. Most (82%) endophytes showed plant growth-promoting traits. Biosynthesis of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was observed in 84% of isolates, and phosphate solubilization, siderophore production, and cellulase activity was observed in 69%, 23%, and 27% of isolates, respectively. Seeds treated with T. asperellum exhibited a significantly higher seed vigour index (2096), germination percentage (94%), and yield under greenhouse and field conditions. The results were substantiated by the confocal microscopy analysis, which clearly demonstrated the colonization of treated endophyte in root tissues. The present study reveals an ecofriendly approach to explore T. asperellum in sorghum disease management.		[Rajini, Sollepura B.; Nandhini, Murali; Udayashankar, Arkere C.; Niranjana, Siddapura R.; Prakash, Harischandra S.] Univ Mysore, Dept Studies Biotechnol, Manasagangotri, Mysuru, India; [Lund, Ole S.] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Plant & Environm Sci, Taastrup, Denmark; [Prakash, Harischandra S.] Univ Mysore, Dept Studies Biotechnol, Manasagangotri, Mysuru, India								21							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000514277700001		
J	Ullah, S.; Hasan, Z.; Li, Z.; Zuberi, A.; Zorriehzahra, M. J.; Nabi, G.								Diversity and community composition of ichthyofauna at Konhaye Stream, district Dir Lower, Pakistan								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				19	5			2322	2339		10.22092/ijfs.2018.119811			2020	2020	This study was undertaken to investigate the diversity, abundance ratio, and distribution of the fish species and to record the water quality of Konhaye Stream, district Dir Lower, Pakistan. A total of 16 fish species were recorded, belonging to 4 orders (Cypriniformes, Channiformes, Siluriformes and Mastacebilformes), and 5 families including Cyprinidae (Schizopyge esocinus, Racoma labiata, Cyprinion watsoni, Cyprinus carpio, Barilius pakistanicus, B. vagra, B. modestus, Crossocheilus diplocheilus, Garra gotyla, Puntius ticto, and P. sophore), Channidae (Channa punctatus and Channa gachua), Nemacheilidae (Schistura macrolepis), Sisoidae (Glyptothorax punjabensis), and Mastacembelidae (Mastacembelus armatus). Different ichthyo-diversity indices [Simpson's biodiversity index (D=0.918), Simpson's reciprocal index (1/D=1.088), Simpson's evenness index (E-1/D=0.068), species richness (S), Shannon-Weiner's index (H'=3.775), Menhinick's index (D-mn=0.804), and Margalef's index (D-mg=2.510)] were calculated for the stream. The physicochemical parameters [temperature (23.125 +/- 3.514 degrees C), dissolved Oxygen (9.003 +/- 0.627 mg L-1), pH (7.333 +/- 0.201), turbidity (76.5 +/- 6.403 NTU), electric conductivity (201.68 +/- 11.31 mu s cm(-1)), free CO2 (124.75 +/- 9.912 ppm), total dissolved solids (126.1 +/- 9.477 ppm), total alkalinity (4.325 +/- 0.171 mg L-1), total suspended solids (127.1 +/- 6.864 ppm), total hardness (5.225 +/- 0.341 mg L-1), salinity (42.25 +/- 6.292 ppt), calcium hardness (2.975 +/- 0.670 mg L-1), magnesium hardness (105 +/- 9.954 mg L-1), potassium (0.0145 +/- 0.001 mg L-1), sodium (16.55 +/- 3.861 mg L-1), chloride (1.825 +/- 0.727 mg L-1), and nitrate (0.053 +/- 0.006 mg L-1) level] were monitored and found to be in varying but permissible ranges. The stream was found to be harboring a number of economically valuable fish species. An exotic fish species, C. carpio, was found well flourished, indicating the potential of the stream to be used for mitigating the declining ichthyofaunal diversity in the main nearby rivers. Two species, P. sophore and P. ticto, were recorded for the first time from the district. Proper management, appropriate fish stocking, and implementing environmental/fishing laws are suggested for the maintenance of the diversity and alleviating anthropogenic stress/threats.		[Ullah, S.; Li, Z.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Life Sci, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Ullah, S.; Hasan, Z.] Univ Peshawar, Dept Zool, Fisheries Lab, Peshawar 25120, Pakistan; [Zuberi, A.] Quaid I Azam Univ, Dept Anim Sci, Fisheries & Aquaculture Lab, Islamabad 45320, Pakistan; [Zorriehzahra, M. J.] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Dept Aquat Anim Hlth & Dis, Iranian Fisheries Sci Res Inst IFSRI, Tehran, Iran; [Nabi, G.] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, Wuhan 430072, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Ullah, S.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Life Sci, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Ullah, S.] Univ Peshawar, Dept Zool, Fisheries Lab, Peshawar 25120, Pakistan								2							Fisheries	WOS:000577113700009		
J	Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar; Das Chatterjee, Nilanjana; Dolui, Gour								Consequences of sand mining on water quality and instream biota in alluvial stream: a case-specific study in South Bengal River, India								SUSTAINABLE WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT				5	4			1815	1832		10.1007/s40899-019-00345-y			DEC 2019	2019	In this paper, an attempt has been made to document consequences of river sand mining on water quality and instream biota in an alluvial channel as Kangsabati River, India. Water Quality Index (WQI) is used to identify the adverse effects of water quality on species diversity, richness, and evenness of the aquatic community. Physicochemical parameters (PP) such as p(H), dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, electric conductivity, salinity, biological oxygen demand, magnesium cation, and turbidity are analyzed from 27 representative sampling stations as sandchar, mining, and pit sites along the upper, middle, and lower course. Pearson correlation indicates that p(H) and magnesium cation is the most significant parameters with WQI. Principal component analysis denotes good water quality (<50) concentrated in sandchar sites, while poor (50-70) and very poor (>70) water qualities are presence in mining and pit sites. Applying Simpson's index, Simpson's index of diversity, Simpson's reciprocal index, and Shannon-Wiener diversity index on instream biota, those vary from sandchar (0.19, 0.81, 5.57, and -1.34) to mining (0.11, 0.89, 9.23, and -1.39) and pit sites (0.12, 0.90, 10.68, and -1.50). Maximum Margalef's index of species indicated the richness of species types in mining sites (4.62), with minimum mean values in sandchar sites (3.64). Contrastingly, Pielou's evenness index is high in sandchar sites (-1.05) and low in mining sites (-1.49). Therefore, significant physicochemical parameters such as P-H, dissolved oxygen, magnesium cation, and electric conductivity changes the diversity index, species richness and evenness in mining and pit along the middle and lower courses caused by sand mining.		[Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar; Das Chatterjee, Nilanjana; Dolui, Gour] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Geog & Environm Management, Midnapore 721101, W Bengal, India; [Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Geog & Environm Management, Midnapore 721101, W Bengal, India								5							Water Resources	WOS:000494686800034		
J	Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Ma, Lin; Dong, Dong; Kou, Qi; Gan, Zhibin; Gong, Lin; Yang, Mei; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Jinbao; Wang, Hongfa								Spatial pattern of benthic macroinvertebrate communities and their relationship with environmental variables on the East China Sea shelf								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				169						104633	10.1016/j.dsr2.2019.07.021			NOV-DEC 2019	2019	To detect the large-scale spatial pattern of the benthic macroinvertebrate communities and the relationship with their environment on the East China Sea shelf, forty sites were sampled for benthic macroinvertebrates and environmental variables during August and September 2015. A total of 12529 benthic macroinvertebrate individuals and 274 species were collected, with crustaceans being predominant, followed by mollusks. Four communities were identified by hierarchical agglomerative cluster (HAC) analysis and cross-verified by nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination: an Inshore community (IC); a Transitional community (TC); a Northern offshore community (NOC); and a Southern offshore community (SOC). Significant differences in their community structure were found by permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA). The indicator species varied among the four communities, with Solenocera crassicornis, Sternaspis scutata and Virgularia sp. dominating IC, Solenocera koelbeli, Trachysalambria curvirostris and Nitidotellina valtonis dominating TC, Parapenaeus fissuroides, Onustus exutus and Drachiella morum dominating NOC, and Heikeopsis japonica, Solenocera pectinulata and Actiniaria dominating SOC. Significant differences among communities were detected for species number (S), Margalef's index (d), Pielou's index (J'), Hill's number (N-infinity), total taxonomic distinctness (S Delta(+)), average phylogenetic diversity (Phi(+)), total phylogenetic diversity (S Phi(+)) and abundance through statistical analyses. The redundancy analysis (RDA) model revealed that turbidity, silicate and depth were significant environmental variables influencing the benthic macroinvertebrates. Variation partitioning (VPA) showed that water characteristics had a greater impact than sediment conditions on the distribution of benthic macroinvertebrates in the East China Sea.		[Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Ma, Lin; Dong, Dong; Kou, Qi; Gan, Zhibin; Gong, Lin; Yang, Mei; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Jinbao; Wang, Hongfa] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Ma, Lin; Dong, Dong; Kou, Qi; Gan, Zhibin; Gong, Lin; Yang, Mei; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Jinbao; Wang, Hongfa] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Ma, Lin; Dong, Dong; Kou, Qi; Gan, Zhibin; Gong, Lin; Yang, Mei; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Jinbao; Wang, Hongfa] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Ma, Lin; Dong, Dong; Kou, Qi; Gan, Zhibin; Gong, Lin; Yang, Mei; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Jinbao; Wang, Hongfa] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266000, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China				International Scientific Symposium on Understanding Changes in Transitional Areas of the Pacific	APR 24-26, 2018	N Pacific Marine Sci Org; Centro Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas Inst Politecnico Nacl	Centro Investigaciones Biologicas Noroeste, La Paz, MEXICO	6							Oceanography	WOS:000504782200013		
J	Zhao Jingjing; Gong Lu; Chen Xin								Relationship between ecological stoichiometry and plant community diversity in the upper reaches of Tarim River, northwestern China								JOURNAL OF ARID LAND				12	2			227	238		10.1007/s40333-019-0020-y			MAR 2020	2020	Changes in ecological stoichiometry reflect nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and both N and P limitations in a plant community, which in turn affect plant diversity of the community. However, the relationship between plant community diversity and ecological stoichiometry has not yet been fully researched in arid and semi-arid regions. Ecological stoichiometry and plant community diversity indices of eighteen communities in the upper reaches of Tarim River, northwestern China, were analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance in 2016. The correlation between ecological stoichiometry and plant community diversity was assessed by redundancy analysis (RDA). Results indicated that the Margalef's index was significantly correlated with carbon (C) and P concentrations, the Simpson's index and Shannon-Weaner index were significantly correlated with plant C concentration, and the Pielou's index was significantly correlated with plant C and N concentrations. Moreover, C:N and C:P ratios had significant impacts on plant community diversity. Our results highlight the importance of ecological stoichiometry in driving plant community diversity in the upper reaches of Tarim River, northwestern China.		[Zhao Jingjing; Gong Lu; Chen Xin] Xinjiang Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Urumqi 830046, Peoples R China; [Zhao Jingjing; Gong Lu; Chen Xin] Xinjiang Univ, Key Lab Oasis Ecol, Urumqi 830046, Peoples R China; [Gong Lu] Xinjiang Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Urumqi 830046, Peoples R China; [Gong Lu] Xinjiang Univ, Key Lab Oasis Ecol, Urumqi 830046, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000492718900001		
J	Sherwin, William B.; Prat i Fornells, Narcis								The Introduction of Entropy and Information Methods to Ecology by Ramon Margalef								ENTROPY				21	8					794	10.3390/e21080794			AUG 2019	2019	In ecology and evolution, entropic methods are now used widely and increasingly frequently. Their use can be traced back to Ramon Margalef's first attempt 70 years ago to use log-series to quantify ecological diversity, including searching for ecologically meaningful groupings within a large assemblage, which we now call the gamma level. The same year, Shannon and Weaver published a generally accessible form of Shannon's work on information theory, including the measure that we now call Shannon-Wiener entropy. Margalef seized on that measure and soon proposed that ecologists should use the Shannon-Weiner index to evaluate diversity, including assessing local (alpha) diversity and differentiation between localities (beta). He also discussed relating this measure to environmental variables and ecosystem processes such as succession. Over the subsequent decades, he enthusiastically expanded upon his initial suggestions. Finally, 2019 also would have been Margalef's 100th birthday.		[Sherwin, William B.] UNSW Sydney, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Evolut & Ecol Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia; [Prat i Fornells, Narcis] Univ Barcelona, Fac Biol, Seccio Ecol, Dept Biol Evoluc Ecol & Ciencies Ambiamentales, Diagonal 643, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain; [Sherwin, William B.] UNSW Sydney, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Evolut & Ecol Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia								19							Physics, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000483732700093		
J	Li, D.; Cai, K.; Li, X.; Giesy, J. P.; Niu, Z.; Cai, Y.; Dai, J.; Xu, D.; Zhou, X.; Liu, H.; Yu, H.								Influence of Environmental Variables on Benthic Macroinvertebrate Communities in a Shallow Eutrophic Lowland Lake (Ge Lake, China)								TECNOLOGIA Y CIENCIAS DEL AGUA				10	4			88	119		10.24850/j-tyca-2019-04-05			JUL-AUG 2019	2019	Shallow lowland lakes are critical components of the water cycle, providing an essential service function. However, the impacts of microcystin from phytoplankton communities on benthic macroinvertebrate community diversity and structure have seldom been investigated. During 2008-2012, the impacts of water environmental variables on the diversity of macrobenthic communities, including water temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, transparency, conductivity, the permanganate index, Chlorophyll a, total phosphorus, total nitrogen, and microcystin-LR (L for leucine and R for arginine), were measured in a typical shallow lowland lake, Ge Lake. The results of the present study demonstrated that there were 31 benthic macroinvertebrate taxa in Ge Lake, including 7 oligochaetes, 7 Mollusca, 14 chironomids, and 3 other taxa. Among the macrobenthic taxa in the benthic community, opportunistic taxa such as Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri are present and can occur at greater densities in disturbed habitats. However, a significant reduction/disappearance of sensitive and clean taxa was observed among the benthic macroinvertebrates. Water temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, ammonia nitrogen, transparency and total phosphorus were the main environmental variables influencing macrobenthic community structure, while water temperature, conductivity, ammonia nitrogen, Chlorophyll a, the permanganate index, total phosphorus and total nitrogen were the main factors that influenced macrobenthic community diversity indices (the numbers of taxa, Shannon's diversity index, Margalef's richness index, and Pielou's evenness index). Our results underscore the severity of the effects of human activity on Ge Lake and strongly suggest that restoring the benthic invertebrate community to previous conditions would require the control and reduction of environmental pollutants and nutrients in Ge Lake.		[Li, D.; Giesy, J. P.; Liu, H.; Yu, H.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Pollut Control & Resource Reuse, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Li, D.; Cai, K.; Li, X.; Niu, Z.] Jiangsu Environm Monitoring Ctr, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Giesy, J. P.] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Vet Biomed Sci & Toxicol Ctr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B3, Canada; [Giesy, J. P.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Zool, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Giesy, J. P.] Michigan State Univ, Ctr Integrat Toxicol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Giesy, J. P.] Univ Hong Kong, Sch Biol Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cai, Y.] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Taihu Lab Lake Ecosyst Res, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Dai, J.] Nanjing Hydraul Res Inst, State Key Lab Hydrol Water Resources & Hydraul En, Nanjing 210029, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Xu, D.] Changzhou Environm Monitoring Ctr, Changzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhou, X.] Tianjin Environm Monitoring Ctr, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Yu, H.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Pollut Control & Resource Reuse, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Civil; Water Resources	WOS:000475852300005		
J	Song, Yingying; Liu, Ruiying; Wang, Mengfei; Liu, Manqiang; Liu, Xianghui; Ge, Feng; Chen, Fajun								Effects of transgenic <i>Bt</i> rice lines with single <i>Cry1Ab</i> and fused <i>Cry1Ab</i>/<i>Cry1Ac</i> on the abundance dynamics and community diversity of soil mites								ARCHIVES OF AGRONOMY AND SOIL SCIENCE				66	5			586	599		10.1080/03650340.2019.1628345			APR 15 2020	2020	Risk assessment and ecological effects are a concern of transgenic rice. In this study, the effects of three lines of Bt rice expressing single Cry1Ab protein (Kemingdao: cv. KMD) and fused Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac proteins (Huahui 1: cv. HH1; Bt Shanyou 63: cv. Bt-SY63) on soil mite community were investigated under field conditions. Transgenic treatment (cv. Bt-rice vs. non-Bt rice) significantly decreased the community index of Margalef's richness (SR) of soil mite in KMD, and significantly increased the abundance and the community indexes of Shannon diversity (H'), Pielou's evenness (J) and SR of soil mite in Bt-SY63 (p < 0.05). Transgene type (cv. KMD vs. HH1) did not significantly affect the composition, abundance and the community index (p > 0.05). Breeding type (cv. HH1 vs. Bt-SY63) significantly changed the composition and markedly improved the abundance and the J value in Bt-SY63 (p < 0.05). However, seasonal and inter-annual changes were apparent, and the Bt effects were not consistent at all for the different plant backgrounds over a 2-year period. These results suggested that the cultivation of Bt rice has a significant but transient effect on soil mite community.		[Song, Yingying; Liu, Ruiying; Wang, Mengfei; Chen, Fajun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Dept Entomol, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Manqiang] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Soil Ecol Lab, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xianghui; Ge, Feng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Fajun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Dept Entomol, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								1							Agronomy; Soil Science	WOS:000474051800001		
J	Tong, Zongyong; Quan, Guoling; Wan, Liqiang; He, Feng; Li, Xianglin								The Effect of Fertilizers on Biomass and Biodiversity on a Semi-Arid Grassland of Northern China								SUSTAINABILITY				11	10					2854	10.3390/su11102854			MAY 2 2019	2019	Semi-arid grassland in northern China faces degradation and desertification problems, with fertilizer application appearing to be a potential solution by improving soil fertility and plant fields or biodiversity. In this study, mineral and organic fertilizers were used in a semi-arid natural grassland in Hebei Province for three years. The plant characteristics, biomass and species diversity index were assessed and analyzed. In the years 2016 and 2017, mineral fertilizers (RC) significantly increased the total aboveground biomass and the aboveground biomass, natural height, density and coverage of Leymus chinensis compared with organic fertilizers (RO), especially at a moderate application rate (RC2). Leymus chinensis was first divided into its own group and then separated into four groups via cluster tree analysis. The importance values of Leymus chinensis showed continuous increases in mineral fertilizer treatments, but not for organic fertilizers. Margalef's species richness indexes increased significantly (to 2.09) in the organic treatment (RO1) when compared with RC2. Thus, it was concluded that mineral fertilizers could enhance the position of Leymus chinensis in the natural grassland, while organic fertilizers could promote species biodiversity. This study also provides recommendations regarding the use of fertilizers for the purposes of increasing plant biomass and biodiversity in semi-arid grasslands of northern China.		[Tong, Zongyong; Quan, Guoling; Wan, Liqiang; He, Feng; Li, Xianglin] Chinese Acad Agr Sci, Inst Anim Sci, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China; [He, Feng; Li, Xianglin] Chinese Acad Agr Sci, Inst Anim Sci, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China								13							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000471010300137		
J	Abu Noman, Md; Mamunur, Rashid; Shahanul, M. Islam; Hossain, M. Belal								Spatial and seasonal distribution of intertidal macrobenthos with their biomass and functional feeding guilds in the Naf River estuary, Bangladesh								JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				37	3			1010	1023		10.1007/s00343-019-8063-7			MAY 2019	2019	The Naf River estuary is one of the most productive ecological ecosystems in Bangladesh providing an important feeding area for fishes and other aquatic animals. However, detailed information on macrobenthic communities is rarely available in this area. Our study focused on the seasonal and spatial variability of macrobenthic community structure with their biomass and functional guilds. In total, fortyseven taxa were identified under nine major groups and seven functional feeding guilds. Among macrobenthic taxa, Polychaeta was dominant in both seasons and all over the estuary contributing 60% of total benthos. The mean abundance of macrobenthos was higher during the pm-monsoon (2 972 +/- 1 994 inds./m(2)) than the monsoon (1 572 +/- 361 inds./m(2)) being maximum at mid-estuary region and minimum at upper and lower estuary regions. Of the diversity indices, density (P=0.01, P=0.003), the number of taxa (P=0.000 3, P=0.000 9) and Margalef's Index (P=0.000 4, P=0.001) of macrobenthos were significantly different among stations and seasons. Shannon-Weiner index (P=0.009, P=0.12) and Pielou's evenness index (P=0.03, P=0.14) had significant differences among stations but not among seasons. Cluster analysis suggested that distribution of macrofauna is strongly influenced by seasonality. Among the feeding types, carnivorous were found to be dominant at the upper and mid-estuarine regions, and herbivorous were at lower estuarine regions. Carnivorous species were dominant in both seasons. Omnivores have shown to be the most abundant feeding type in terms of biomass though herbivores were highest during monsoon.		[Abu Noman, Md] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Marine & Environm Sci, Tianjin 300072, Peoples R China; [Mamunur, Rashid; Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Sonapur, Bangladesh; [Shahanul, M. Islam] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Food Engn & Biotechnol, Tianjin 300457, Peoples R China; [Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Sonapur, Bangladesh								10							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000469401600023		
J	Okach, Daniel Osieko; Ondier, Joseph O.; Rambold, Gerhard; Tenhunen, John; Huwe, Bernd; Jung, Eun Young; Otieno, Dennis O.								Interaction of livestock grazing and rainfall manipulation enhances herbaceous species diversity and aboveground biomass in a humid savanna								JOURNAL OF PLANT RESEARCH				132	3			345	358		10.1007/s10265-019-01105-x			MAY 2019	2019	Understanding of the interaction of livestock grazing and rainfall variability may aid in predicting the patterns of herbaceous species diversity and biomass production. We manipulated the amount of ambient rainfall received in grazed and ungrazed savanna in Lambwe Valley-Kenya. The combined influence of livestock grazing and rainfall on soil moisture, herbaceous species diversity, and aboveground biomass patterns was assessed. We used the number of species (S), Margalef's richness index (D-mg), Shannon index of diversity (H), and Pileou's index of evenness (J) to analyze the herbaceous community structure. S, D-mg, H and J were higher under grazing whereas volumetric soil water contents (VWC) and aboveground biomass (AGB) decreased with grazing. Decreasing (50%) or increasing (150%) the ambient rainfall by 50% lowered species richness and diversity. Seasonality in rainfall influenced the variation in VWC, S, Dmg, H, and AGB but not J (p=0.43). Overall, D-mg declined with increasing VWC. However, the AGB and D-mg mediated the response of H and J to the changes in VWC. The highest H occurred at AGB range of 400-800 gm(-2). We attribute the lower diversity in the ungrazed plots to the dominance (relative abundance>70%) of Hyparrhenia fillipendulla (Hochst) Stapf. and Brachiaria decumbens Stapf. Grazing exclusion, which controls AGB, hindered the coexistence among species due to the competitive advantage in resource utilization by the more dominant species. Our findings highlight the implication of livestock grazing and rainfall variability in maintaining higher diversity and aboveground biomass production in the herbaceous layer community for sustainable ecosystem management.		[Okach, Daniel Osieko; Tenhunen, John; Jung, Eun Young; Otieno, Dennis O.] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Plant Ecol, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Ondier, Joseph O.] Maseno Univ, Dept Bot, Maseno, Kenya; [Rambold, Gerhard] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Mycol, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Huwe, Bernd] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Soil Phys, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Otieno, Dennis O.] Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Univ Sci & Technol, Bondo 40601210, Kenya; [Okach, Daniel Osieko] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Plant Ecol, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany								6							Plant Sciences	WOS:000467486400006		
J	Ge, Baoming; Cui, Jun; Zhang, Daizhen; Liu, Qiuning; Jiang, Senhao; Tang, Boping; Yang, Li; Zhou, Chunlin								Succession of soil macro-faunal biodiversity in forests converted from croplands after long-term coastal reclamation								SOIL & TILLAGE RESEARCH				186				165	171		10.1016/j.still.2018.10.015			MAR 2019	2019	The long-term succession of the soil macro-faunal community after reclamation at coastal areas is not well understood, especially at the time scale of centuries. The objective of this work was to analyze soil development by measuring its principal physico-chemical properties and study the macro-faunal biodiversity succession along the successional trajectory created by intermittent reclamation. We hypothesized that soil macro-faunal taxonomic and functional diversity, richness, and density would increase after long-term reclamation, and that macro-faunal succession was related to dike age. In July 2014, sites of varying dike age (30, 50, 100, and 200 years) were used to represent a successional trajectory of Fluvisol soils at a reclaimed coast at Yancheng, China. The selected habitats were planted with 14-17 years old poplar (Populus euramericana) or dawn redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides) trees. With increasing dike age, soil nutrient status improved over the successional trajectory, as indicated by the increased soil organic carbon (SOC) concentration, total nitrogen (TN), and total phosphorous (TP). Soil salt concentration (SSC), pH, and carbon-nitrogen (C/N) ratio continuously decreased, as did soil bulk density (BD), the latter of which had a smaller coefficient of variation than the other properties did. Over the first 100 years of macro-faunal succession, taxonomic richness, abundance, Margalef's richness index, and the Shannon-Weaver diversity index increased significantly, but did not differ significantly between the habitats with dike ages of 100 and 200 years. Significant differences in the measured communities' characters were detected between forests planted with different trees when the dike age was 50 years but not when it was 30 years. Differences in macro-faunal community structure were primarily related to SOC and SSC, which were considerably related to dike age. The taxonomic richness and abundance of functional groups varied significantly among habitats and was related to changes in food resources in the soil environment. The abundance and taxonomic richness of phytophagous and saprophagous species increased with increasing dike age; no significant differences were noted in taxonomic richness of omnivorous species and predator abundance. The results thus supported our hypotheses. In conclusion, long-term macro-faunal community succession was affected by dike age, land use, and soil development after reclamation, and the soil macro-faunal biodiversity tended to increase with increasing dike age.		[Ge, Baoming; Cui, Jun; Zhang, Daizhen; Liu, Qiuning; Jiang, Senhao; Tang, Boping; Yang, Li; Zhou, Chunlin] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Synthet Innovat Ctr Coastal Bioagr, Jiangsu Key Lab Bioresources Saline Soils, 2 South Xiwang Ave, Yancheng 224007, Peoples R China; [Ge, Baoming] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Synthet Innovat Ctr Coastal Bioagr, Jiangsu Key Lab Bioresources Saline Soils, 2 South Xiwang Ave, Yancheng 224007, Peoples R China								10							Soil Science	WOS:000452934500019		
J	Xu, Yong; Ma, Lin; Sun, Yue; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Huimin								Spatial variation of demersal fish diversity and distribution in the East China Sea: Impact of the bottom branches of the Kuroshio Current								JOURNAL OF SEA RESEARCH				144				22	32		10.1016/j.seares.2018.11.003			FEB 2019	2019	The bottom branches of the Kuroshio Current in the East China Sea were recently discovered from physical and chemical oceanographic perspectives. To examine the diversity and distribution of demersal fish community in the East China Sea and to assess the impact of the bottom branches of the Kuroshio Current, we investigated the demersal fish community with an Agassiz trawl in the East China Sea shelf in the summer of 2015. A total of 72 species were collected in 40 sampling sites with Amblychaeturichthys hexanema, Champsodon snyderi, Odontamblyopus rubicundus, Cynoglossus interruptus, and Coelorinchus multispinulosus being the top 5 most abundant species. Three ecological groups of demersal fish-the Coastal group (CG), Transitional group (TG) and Kuroshio group (KG) were identified through multivariate analyses, and significant differences in species composition among the three ecological groups were detected. The dominant species varied among the groups: gobies in CG; Neobythites sivicola, Cynoglossus interruptus and Aseraggodes kobensis in TG; and Champsodon snyderi, Callionymus beniteguri and Ostorhinchus fasciatus in KG. Most diversity indices, including the number of species (S), Margalef's index (d), Shannon-Wiener's index (H'(log(2))), Simpson's index (1-lambda'), rarefaction index (ES(100)), Hill's number (N-infinity), average taxonomic diversity (Delta), total taxonomic distinctness (S Delta(+)), variation in taxonomic distinctness (Lambda(+)) and total phylo-genetic diversity (S Phi(+)) increased from inshore to offshore, whereas abundance and biomass increased from south to north. K-dominance curves suggested diversity rankings of offshore region > inshore region and southern region > northern region for regional comparisons. A diversity ranking of KG > TG > CG for group comparisons was also detected. The funnel and ellipse plots of taxonomic measures indicated that diversity was approximately equal to the expected range in KG (healthy), whereas it was significantly lower in CG (unhealthy). CCA (canonical correspondence analysis) revealed that turbidity, fine silt sediment, fluorescence, dissolved oxygen and salinity were the most active environmental variables influencing demersal fish community. RDA (redundancy analysis) found turbidity and temperature showed significant associations with the biodiversity matrix.		[Xu, Yong; Ma, Lin; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Ma, Lin; Li, Xinzheng] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Ma, Lin; Li, Xinzheng] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Ma, Lin; Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Megasci, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Sun, Yue] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Synthet Innovat Ctr Coastal Bioagr, Jiangsu Key Lab Bioresources Saline Soils, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Coastal Wetland Bioresources, Yancheng 224051, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Huimin] Ocean Univ China, Coll Fisheries, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China								7							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000456758400003		
J	Mangano, M. Cristina; Ape, Francesca; Mirto, Simone								The role of two non-indigenous serpulid tube worms in shaping artificial hard substrata communities: case study of a fish farm in the central Mediterranean Sea								AQUACULTURE ENVIRONMENT INTERACTIONS				11				41	51		10.3354/aei00291			2019	2019	Understanding the spread and establishment of non-indigenous species (NIS) is one of the primary areas of focus in bioinvasion science and is essential for generating appropriate management strategies in aquaculture. Here we investigated the role of 2 non-indigenous serpulid tube worms (Hydroides elegans and H. dirampha) in shaping the hard substrata communities around a fish farm in the Strait of Sicily over 1 yr (June 2014-June 2015), at 3 mo intervals (September and December 2014, March and June 2015). The mean density values of serpulids were significantly different at each sampling time. The density of serpulids on submerged panels showed a peak in spring (March 2015, after 9 mo) and decreased drastically in summer (June 2015). Hydroides shaped the entire associated macrobenthic community, which showed the highest density in the first month of observations. The lowest density was recorded in proximity to the highest density of serpulids. Margalef's species richness of the associated macrofaunal community peaked at the end of monitoring (summer). Our results will add new insights into the role of aquaculture as a vector and pathway for NIS.		[Mangano, M. Cristina] Univ Palermo, Dipartimento Sci Terra & Mare, Viale Sci Ed 16, I-90128 Palermo, Italy; [Mangano, M. Cristina] Bangor Univ, Sch Ocean Sci, 328 Westbury Mt, Menai Bridge LL59 5AB, Anglesey, Wales; [Ape, Francesca; Mirto, Simone] Ist Studio Impatti Antrop & Sostenibilita Ambient, Via G da Verrazzano 17, I-91014 Castellammare Del Golfo, TP, Italy; [Mirto, Simone] Ist Studio Impatti Antrop & Sostenibilita Ambient, Via G da Verrazzano 17, I-91014 Castellammare Del Golfo, TP, Italy								19							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000457953400001		
J	Chen, Quan; Lin, Guangxuan; Ma, Keming; Chen, Pimao								Determining the Unsuitability of Exotic Cordgrass (<i>Spartina alterniflora</i>) for Avifauna in a Mangrove Wetland Ecosystem								JOURNAL OF COASTAL RESEARCH				35	1			177	185		10.2112/JCOASTRES-D-17-00203.1			JAN 2019	2019	Avifauna are essential for maintaining the structure and functioning of mangrove ecosystems, which are particularly sensitive to habitat transformation. Although exotic cordgrass, Spartina alterniflora, is an increasing threat to mangrove ecosystems (including the associated unvegetated shoals) of China, its effects on the avifauna in such ecosystems are poorly understood. In Zhanjiang, China, the avifaunal Shannon-Weiner diversity, Simpson's diversity, Margalef's species richness, Pielou's evenness and density indices were compared in (1) an Avicennia marina monoculture vs. an S. alterniflora-invaded A. marina stand (a mixture of A. marina and S. alterniflora) and (2) an unvegetated shoal vs. an S. alterniflora-invaded shoal that had rapidly become an S. alterniflora monoculture. All avifaunal community parameters except for the Simpson index were significantly lower in the S. alterniflora thorn A. marina mixture than in the A. marina monoculture, and in the S. alterniflora monoculture than in the unvegetated shoal. These results indicate that the presence of S. alterniflora reduces the suitability of the Zhanjiang mangrove ecosystem for avifauna. Among the four habitats, the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, species richness, and density of the avifaunal community were highest in the unvegetated shoal. Further analysis indicated that the differences in the avifaunal community between invaded and noninvaded sites were associated with vegetation characteristics (mainly plant height and density) and macrobenthic faunal metrics (mainly species richness and density). The reduced avifaunal diversity and abundance associated with S. alterniflora invasion probably resulted from the decline in food resources or from the increased difficulty in foraging and roosting. The findings indicate that the conservation of birds in mangrove ecosystems may depend on controlling or eradicating exotic S. alterniflora, maintaining tidal mudflats, and diversifying the habitats in mangrove wetlands.		[Chen, Quan; Ma, Keming] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Chen, Quan; Chen, Pimao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Key Lab Marine Ranch Technol, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Lin, Guangxuan] Zhanjiang Mangrove Natl Nat Reserve, Zhanjiang 524033, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China								3							Environmental Sciences; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000457248700017		
J	Gupta, Rupali; Singh, Akanksha; Srivastava, Madhumita; Shanker, Karuna; Pandey, Rakesh								Plant-microbe interactions endorse growth by uplifting microbial community structure of <i>Bacopa monnieri</i> rhizosphere under nematode stress								MICROBIOLOGICAL RESEARCH				218				87	96		10.1016/j.micres.2018.10.006			2019	2019	The modification of rhizosphere microbial diversity and ecological processes are of rising interest as shifting in microbial community structure impacts the mutual role of host-microbe interactions. Nevertheless, the connection between host-microbial community diversity, their function under biotic stress in addition to their impact on plant performances is poorly understood. The study was designed with the aim to analyze the tripartite interactions among Chitiniphilus sp., Streptomyces sp. and their combination with indigenous rhizospheric microbial population of Bacopa monnieri for enhancing the plant growth and bacoside A content under Meloidogyne incognita stress. Overall, plants treated with the microbial combination recorded enhanced growth as illustrated by significantly higher biomass (2.0 fold), nitrogen uptake (1.8 fold) and bacoside A content (1.3 fold) along with biocontrol efficacy (58.5%) under nematode infected field. The denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) fingerprints of 16S-rDNA revealed that microbial inoculations are major initiators of bacterial community structure in the plant rhizosphere. Additionally, the plants treated with microbial combination showed maximum diversity viz., Shannon's (3.29), Margalef's (4.21), and Simpson's (0.96) indices. Likewise the metabolic profiling data also showed a significant variation among the diversity and evenness indices upon microbial application on the native microflora. We surmise that the application of beneficial microbes in combinational mode not only helped in improving the microbial community structure but also successfully enhanced plant and soil health under biotic stress.		[Gupta, Rupali; Singh, Akanksha; Pandey, Rakesh] CSIR Cent Inst Med & Aromat Plants, Microbial Technol & Nematol Dept, PO CIMAP, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Gupta, Rupali] Agr Res Org, Volcani Ctr, Plant Pathol & Weed Res Dept, Rishon Leziyyon, Israel; [Srivastava, Madhumita; Shanker, Karuna] CSIR Cent Inst Med & Aromat Plants, Analyt Chem Dept, PO CIMAP, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Pandey, Rakesh] CSIR Cent Inst Med & Aromat Plants, Microbial Technol & Nematol, PO CIMAP, Lucknow 226015, Uttar Pradesh, India								13							Microbiology	WOS:000456897900010		
J	Kiranya, B.; Pramila, S.; Mullasseri, Sileesh								The diversity of finfish population in Poonthura estuary, south-west coast of India, Kerala								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				190	12					743	10.1007/s10661-018-7094-4			DEC 2018	2018	Quantitative measures of diversity are the ideal tools to reveal the community differences that are due to changes in the relative taxon abundance. The present study is an attempt to investigate the measures of finfish diversity of the Poonthura estuary, located in Thiruvananthapuram district of Kerala, India. Samples were collected using gill nets from three stations. Biodiversity indices such as Margalef's richness (d), Pielou's evenness (J'), Shannon diversity (H') loge(2), Simpson diversity (1-), Simpson dominance (), average taxonomic distinctness (o+), and variation in taxonomic distinctness (+) were worked out for monthly and seasonal data (pre-monsoon, monsoon, and post-monsoon). The ranges of species richness, evenness, Shannon diversity, and Simpson diversity and dominance were 2.30 to 4.51, 0.79 to 0.92, 2.52 to 3.42, 0.76 to 0.91, and 0.11 to 0.23 respectively. Considering the lacuna in information on this estuary, the results of the present study provide reference points for the measures of fish diversity for future studies. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) plotted to understand the seasonal and monthly variation of diversity. The clusters showed 40% similarity in the monthly samples, with the post-monsoon season showing the highest number of species. Various physicochemical parameters influenced the temporal fluctuations in diversity including seasons, river runoff, sewage discharge, and intrusion of saline water. Moreover, higher values of chlorophyll a is an indicator of eutrophication. Proper management inputs are necessary to sustain the resources along with pollution abatement measures for improving the livelihood support from this estuary.		[Kiranya, B.; Pramila, S.; Mullasseri, Sileesh] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India; [Kiranya, B.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India								6							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000451035200001		
J	Turkis, Sevda; Elmas, Emire								Effect of environmental factors on species diversity of the Yenice Hot Spot Forests in Turkey								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				29	6			1719	1730		10.1007/s11676-018-0595-8			NOV 2018	2018	We quantified the diversity of vascular plant species and described soil properties and topographical and climatic conditions of the Citdere and Kavakli Nature Reserves in the Yenice Forest of Turkey. We used the Shannon-Weiner and Simpson's indices of diversity, Margalef's index of species richness and Pielou's evenness index to quantify the structure of vascular plant assemblages. We measured soil parameters (NO3-, NH4+, available P, Mg++, K+, Na+, Ca++, organic matter, pH, soil moisture), elevation, slope gradient and aspect and their correlations with plant community parameters. In total, we recorded and identified 207 species and subspecies in the study area. Species cover, richness and diversity indices varied significantly by vegetation type (P < 0.01). Available NO3- and Ca++ in the soil were important factors for the area and species representation in the species-environment correlations estimated for the Kavakli area. Available NO3-, pH, organic matter, Ca++ and K+ in the soil were important factors for the area and species representation in the species-environment correlations analysed for the Citdere area.		[Turkis, Sevda] Ordu Univ, Fac Educ, Ordu, Turkey; [Elmas, Emire] Sinop Univ, Fac Sci & Art, Sinop, Turkey; [Turkis, Sevda] Ordu Univ, Fac Educ, Ordu, Turkey								2							Forestry	WOS:000445386400025		
J	Kuang, Faguo; Li, Yancheng; He, Lei; Xia, Yongqiu; Li, Shubai; Zhou, Jian								Cometabolism degradation of lignin in sequencing batch biofilm reactors								ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING RESEARCH				23	3			294	300		10.4491/eer.2017.201			SEP 2018	2018	Cometabolism technology was employed to degrade lignin wastewater in Sequencing Batch Biofilm Reactor. Cometabolic system (with glucose and lignin in inflow) and the control group (only lignin in inflow) were established to do a comparative study. In contrast with the control group, the average removal rates of lignin increased by 14.7% and total oarganic carbon increased by 32% in the cometabolic system with glucose as growth substrate, under the condition of 5 mg/L DO, 0.2 kgCOD/(m(3).d) lignin and glucose 1.0 kgCOD/(m(3).d). Functional groups of lignin are degraded effectively in cometabolic system proved by fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometer, and the degradation products were amides (mainly induding acetamide, N-ethylacetamide and N, N-diethylacetamide), alcohols (mainly including glycerol and ethylene glycol) and acids. Meanwhile, results of Polymerase Chain Reaction-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis showed great differences in microbial population richness between cometabolic system and the control group. The Margalef s richness index and Shannon-Wiener's diversity index of microorganism in cometabolic system were 3.075 and 2.61, respectively. The results showed that extra addition of glucose, with a concentration of 943 mg/L, was beneficial to lignin biodegradation in cometabolic system.		[Kuang, Faguo; Li, Yancheng; He, Lei; Xia, Yongqiu; Li, Shubai; Zhou, Jian] Chongqing Univ, Key Lab Gorges Reservoirs Ecoenvironm, 83 Shabei Rd, Chongqing 400045, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Jian] Chongqing Univ, Key Lab Gorges Reservoirs Ecoenvironm, 83 Shabei Rd, Chongqing 400045, Peoples R China								8							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000446137800009		
J	Murugan, Rajaram; Ananthan, Gnanakkan								Ascidian diversity (Chordata: Tunicata) from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India								OCEANOLOGICAL AND HYDROBIOLOGICAL STUDIES				47	2			107	117		10.1515/ohs-2018-0012			JUN 2018	2018	Ascidians are filter-feeding sac-like marine urochordates of great evolutionary, ecological and economic importance. Andaman and Nicobar Islands are one of the most important hot spots of biodiversity in India, while the ascidian diversity of this region is very scanty. Ascidians belonging to 29 species were identified at the Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the field research carried out from March 2014 to April 2015. Eight species (Didemnum granulatum, Didemnum molle, Didemnum psammatodes, Diplosoma listerianum, Lissoclinum fragile, Lissoclinum levitum, Lissoclinum patella, Trididemnum Cyclops) from the Didemnidae family were found and identified. Various diversity indices, such as the Shannon - Wiener index (H') Margalef's index (D), Pielou's index (H'), K-dominance curves, Cluster Analysis and Multidimensional Scaling, were used to analyze the diversity, richness and evenness of species, and to compare the diversity between samples and their resemblance in terms of species composition. The maximum species richness was observed in Campbell Bay (2.424) and the minimum in Haddo Wharf (0.910). This finding shows the rich species diversity of ascidian fauna at Andaman and Nicobar Islands.		[Murugan, Rajaram; Ananthan, Gnanakkan] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ananthan, Gnanakkan] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								1							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000435586900002		
J	Wang, Congyan; Jiang, Kun; Liu, Jun; Zhou, Jiawei; Wu, Bingde								Moderate and heavy <i>Solidago canadensis</i> L. invasion are associated with decreased taxonomic diversity but increased functional diversity of plant communities in East China								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				112				55	64		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2017.12.025			MAR 2018	2018	Clarifying the effects of invasive plant species (IPS) on the taxonomic and functional diversity of native communities provides insight into the mechanisms underlying successful plant invasion. This study aims to determine the effects of an IPS (Solidago canadensis L.) at different invasion degree on the taxonomic and functional diversity of plant communities by using a comparative analysis. The degree of S. canadensis invasion was divided into several categories-uninvaded (0%), low (< 35%), moderate (35%-75%), and heavy (> 75%)-on the basis of the relative abundance of the species in the invaded ecosystems. Forty quadrats (2 m x 2 m) were surveyed per invasion to assess the degree of S. canadensis invasion. The taxonomic diversity of plant communities was calculated using the Shannon-Wiener diversity and Margalef's richness indices. The functional diversity of plant communities was estimated using community-weighted mean trait values, Mason's alpha and beta functional diversity, and Rao's quadratic entropy. The taxonomic diversity indices of plant communities significantly decreased under moderate and heavy degree of S. canadensis invasion conditions. Most of the functional diversity indices of plant communities significantly increased under all degree of S. canadensis invasion conditions (especially under moderate and heavy degree of invasion conditions). The increased functional diversity of plant communities under S. canadensis invasion conditions (especially under moderate and heavy degree of invasion conditions) may lead to a more efficient use of resources at the interspecific level via niche complementarity.		[Wang, Congyan; Jiang, Kun; Liu, Jun; Zhou, Jiawei; Wu, Bingde] Jiangsu Univ, Acad Environm Hlth & Ecol Secur, Inst Environm & Ecol, 301 Xuefu Rd, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China; [Wang, Congyan; Jiang, Kun; Liu, Jun; Zhou, Jiawei; Wu, Bingde] Jiangsu Univ, Sch Environm & Safety Engn, 301 Xuefu Rd, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China; [Wang, Congyan] Fudan Univ, Inst Biodivers Sci, Minist Educ, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Wang, Congyan] Jiangsu Univ, Acad Environm Hlth & Ecol Secur, Inst Environm & Ecol, 301 Xuefu Rd, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China; [Wang, Congyan] Jiangsu Univ, Sch Environm & Safety Engn, 301 Xuefu Rd, Zhenjiang 212013, Peoples R China								62							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000424938300008		
J	Liao, Yibo; Shou, Lu; Tang, Yanbin; Gao, Aigen; Chen, Quanzhen; Yan, Xiaojun; Chen, Jianfang								Influence of two non-indigenous plants on intertidal macrobenthic communities in Ximen Island Special Marine Protected Area, China								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				112				96	104		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2017.12.023			MAR 2018	2018	Many coastal habitats are being substantially altered by non-indigenous plants (NIP). In the present study, intertidal macrobenthic communities of three habitats - a non-vegetated tidal flat (TF), a marsh with the smooth cordgrass Spartina alterniflora (SA) and a Kandelia candel mangrove forest (KC) - were examined during periods of ebb tide in February, May, August and November 2015 in Ximen Island Special Marine Protected Area, Zhejiang Province, China. S. alterniflora was introduced from North America in 1979 and invaded Ximen Island spontaneously. K. candel was a direct, artificial introduction in 1957 from Fujian, China. A total of 48 species of macrobenthos were collected from Ximen Island. The average density of macrobenthos in TF, SA and KC was 1365, 1398 and 669 ind./m(2), respectively, and the average biomass of macrobenthos in TF, SA and KC was 144.13, 43.00 and 138.70 g/m(2), respectively. There were no significant differences among the three habitats on density and biomass of macrobenthos, with the exception of density in spring and biomass in autumn. Diversity indices of macrobenthos did not exhibit significant differences among the three habitats, except for Margalef's richness index (d) in KC. However, Results of one-way analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) revealed significant differences in macrobenthic community structure among the three habitats and four seasons. It was concluded that, although few significant differences were observed in the density, biomass and diversity indices of macrobenthos among habitats, there were significant changes in the macrobenthic communities' structure after the introduction of S. alterniflora and K. candel. Therefore, when we use plants as ecological engineering materials, we need to take into account all of their potential ecological consequences.		[Liao, Yibo; Shou, Lu; Tang, Yanbin; Gao, Aigen; Chen, Quanzhen; Chen, Jianfang] State Ocean Adm, Inst Oceanog 2, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst & Biogeochem, Hangzhou 310012, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Liao, Yibo; Yan, Xiaojun] Ningbo Univ, Marine Coll, Minist Educ, Key Lab Appl Marine Biotechnol, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Shou, Lu] 36 Baochubei Rd, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								12							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000424938300013		
J	Amala, U.; Shivalingaswamy, T. M.								Effect of intercrops and border crops on the diversity of parasitoids and predators in agroecosystem								EGYPTIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL PEST CONTROL				28						11	10.1186/s41938-017-0015-y			FEB 8 2018	2018	Diversity of parasitoids and predators in the sole cropped and intercropped, border cropped, and hedgerow cropped fields of guava (sole cropped and intercropped with cowpea), mulberry (sole cropped and border cropped with castor), and sapota (sole cropped and intercropped with clusterbean) were documented in two villages Naukalpalya and P Rampura of Kanakapura district in Karnataka, India, during 2016-2017. The parasitoids and predators were collected using yellow pan traps and sweep nets. The variations in the diversity, species richness, and evenness between two cropping systems are discussed in this paper. Diversity indices were worked out. Predators belonging to the families viz., Coccinellidae, Carabidae, Chrysopidae, Syrphidae, and Pentatomidae were recorded. The adult parasitoids belonging to the families Trichogrammatidae, Braconidae, Encyrtidae, and Ichneumonidae were recorded. Shannon-Weiner index, Margalef's richness index, and evenness index found to be higher in the inter/border/hedgerow cropped fields compared to the sole cropped ecosystems. The abundance of the adult stage of the predators and parasitoids of the inter/border/hedgerow crops was found to be higher. The results of the study confirmed the role of crop diversification as a tool to enhance the functional biodiversity of parasitoids and predators for an efficient biological control program.		[Amala, U.; Shivalingaswamy, T. M.] ICAR Natl Bur Agr Insect Resources, Div Insect Ecol, HA Farm Post,PB 2491, Bangalore 560024, Karnataka, India; [Amala, U.] ICAR Natl Bur Agr Insect Resources, Div Insect Ecol, HA Farm Post,PB 2491, Bangalore 560024, Karnataka, India								8							Entomology	WOS:000436810100002		
J	Park, Jong Myong; You, Young-Hyun; Back, Chang-Gi; Kim, Hyeong-Hwan; Ghim, Sa-Youl; Park, Jong-Han								Fungal load in <i>Bradysia agrestis</i>, a phytopathogen-transmitting insect vector								SYMBIOSIS				74	2			145	158		10.1007/s13199-017-0494-3			FEB 2018	2018	Larvae of Bradysia agrestis, a phytopathogen-transmitting insect vector in East Asia, were sampled from geographically (ecologically) segregated regions to identify their intestinal fungal flora. A total of 24 fungal strains were isolated from the insect vectors and selected based on morphological differences. In addition, 38 fungal strains were isolated from the ulcerated parts of invaded host plants by the same method, revealing the impact of vector fungal flora on their host plants. For molecular identification of the fungi, internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions were amplified and sequenced. Their sequences were compared with sequences of other fungal strains obtained from NCBI GenBank, and their phylogeny was determined. The dominant fungal genera in the insect vector were Penicillium (25%), Aspergillus (21%), and Cladosporium (13%). In plant scar lesions, most fungal isolates belonged to the genera Fusarium (31.6%), Phoma (7.8%), Didymella (7.8%), and Epicoccum (7.8%). Fungal genera in vectors or host plant lesions differed by study site. Furthermore, diversity indices by study site showed clear differences based on Margalef's richness (2.06, 2.40, 3.04), and Menhinick's (1.89, 2.12, 2.53), and Simpson's indices (0.14, 0.07, 0.07). In addition, common fungal strains in insect vectors were found to be closely related to members of the genera Cladosporium, Penicillium, or Aspergillus. Among these strains, those showing the highest homology with Aspergillus terreus, which regarded as beneficial fungal genera could be considered ideal paratransgenesis candidates. Some other fungal strains from vectors or ulcerated plant parts from each study site after B. agrestis invasion may be harmful in terms of plant disease or agrifood safety. This study provides information on the fungal microbiota of B. agrestis, an emerging problem in East Asia, and proposes paratransgenesis candidates to control this insect vector. Furthermore, potential transferable pathogens or commensal fungi were revealed by comparing the fungal biota between the insect gut and the ulcerated parts of the invaded host plants.		[Park, Jong Myong; Ghim, Sa-Youl] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Sch Life Sci, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Microorganism Resources Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Back, Chang-Gi; Kim, Hyeong-Hwan; Park, Jong-Han] Rural Dev Adm, Hort & Herbal Crop Environm Div, Natl Inst Hort & Herbal Sci, Wonju 55365, South Korea; [Ghim, Sa-Youl] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Sch Life Sci, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [Park, Jong-Han] Rural Dev Adm, Hort & Herbal Crop Environm Div, Natl Inst Hort & Herbal Sci, Wonju 55365, South Korea								10							Microbiology	WOS:000423027600007		
J	Santosa, Yanto; Rejeki, Sani Sari Sri								Variation of Herpetofauna in Different Land Cover Types in PT ASMR Oil Palm Plantation, Central Kalimantan Province								AIP Conference Proceedings				2019						060003	10.1063/1.5061912			2018	2018	The oil palm industry is an important contributor to the world vegetable oil market and Indonesia is one of the major exporters globally. Changes in land use to become more monocultural cause concerns among the world community for the preservation of wildlife, including herpetofauna. The objectives of this research were to identify the species number, richness, evenness and also the species composition differences of herpetofauna in each land cover. Herpetofauna species were observed using visual encounter survey (VES) modified with a line transect method over various types of land cover; youngest and oldest oil palm, shrubs and high conservation value forest (HCVF) areas. Observation started at 7 p.m. lasted until 9 p.m. The observation was repeated three times simultaneously. Types of data recorded at the time of observation consisted of herpetofauna species and number of individuals. The data obtained were analyzed using Margalef's index and Sorensen's similarity index. The total number of herpetofauna species found in all land cover types amounted to 14 species (seven amphibians and seven reptiles). The HCVF area had the highest species number (9), species diversity index (2.65) and evenness index (0.88). While the shrubs area had the lowest species number (4) and diversity index (0.99). The results showed there is a correlation between land cover and diversity of herpetofauna.		[Santosa, Yanto; Rejeki, Sani Sari Sri] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Conservat & Ecotourism, Wildlife Ecol & Management Div, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia; [Santosa, Yanto] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Conservat & Ecotourism, Wildlife Ecol & Management Div, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia				9th International Conference on Global Resource Conservation (ICGRC) and AJI from Ritsumeikan University	MAR 07-08, 2018	Peningkatan Publikasi Karya Ilmiah Dosen; Brawijaya Univ, Green Campus Program	Malang City, INDONESIA	0							Physics, Applied	WOS:000481577800076		
J	Rodriguez-Rojas, J. J.; Rebollar-Tellez, E. A.								Effect of trapping methods on the estimation of alpha diversity of a phlebotomine sandfly assemblage in southern Mexico								MEDICAL AND VETERINARY ENTOMOLOGY				31	4			392	401		10.1111/mve.12253			DEC 2017	2017	The aims of the study were to (a) investigate the effect of trapping methods on alpha diversity; and (b) enhance the knowledge of the sandfly assemblage in the state of Quintana Roo. Field work was undertaken in a tropical forest of southern Mexico from August 2013 to July 2014. Sampling was conducted monthly during three consecutive nights. For each trapping night, 12 different types of trap were operated from 18.00 to 24.00 hours in four transects. Measures of alpha community diversity were based on the quantification of the number of species (Chao 2, Jackknife 2, Clench's equation, Margalef's index) and the community structure, as well as the dominance (Simpson and Berger-Parker indexes) and evenness (Shannon's entropy index, true diversity of the Jost and Pielou index). With a total sampling effort of 1728 night-traps, 16 101 phlebotomine sandflies were collected; they represented two genera and 13 species. Diversity estimates of 100% (Chao 2 and Clench's equation) and 85% (Jackknife 2) of potential species in the study area were calculated. Shannon traps and CDC light traps indicated the largest number of species, but only Shannon traps showed the greatest abundance. This inventory of sandflies is an important activity to enhance our knowledge of sandfly assemblages and guilds. The ultimate goal of studying alpha diversity in sandflies would be to have a better understanding of the population dynamics and all complex networks of interactions that may, in turn, be associated with the epidemiology of the disease.		[Rodriguez-Rojas, J. J.; Rebollar-Tellez, E. A.] Univ Autonoma Nuevo Leon, Fac Ciencias Biol, Dept Zool Invertebrados, Lab Entomol Med, San Nicolas De Los Garza, Mexico; [Rebollar-Tellez, E. A.] Univ Autonoma Nuevo Leon, Dept Zool Invertebrados, Ave Univ S-N,Ciudad Univ, San Nicolas De Los Garza 66455, Nuevo Leon, Mexico								11							Entomology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000414579200008		
J	Ahmed, Kanwer Shahzad; Majeed, Muhammad Zeeshan; Rafi, Muhammad Ather; Sellami, Fatima; Afzal, Muhammad								Biodiversity and Species Distribution of Coccinellids (Coccinellidae: Coleoptera) in District Sargodha (Punjab), Pakistan								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				49	5			1749	1759		10.17582/journal.pjz/2017.49.5.1749.1759			OCT 2017	2017	Coccinellid beetles (Coccinellidae; Coleoptera) are voracious predators of many insect pests of economic importance. Among 6,000 species of coccinellids described worldwide, only 75 species have been reported from Pakistan so far. Keeping in view the limited work on these important beetles, an extensive faunal survey was conducted in the district Sargodha (32 degrees 05'02" N and 72 degrees 40'18" E), Pakistan to assess the species richness and distribution of coccinellid beetles in seven selected regions (Bhera, Bhalwal, Kot Momin, Sahiwal, Sargodha, Shahpur and Silanwali). A total of 1,470 coccinellid specimens were collected from all types of vegetation and were identified up to species level by means of external morphology, published descriptions and male genitalia micrometry. Nine species were identified belonging to 9 genera and 4 subfamilies occurring along with 10 trophic associations. Five species viz; Coccinella septempunctata (Linnaeus 1758), Hippodamia variegata (Goeze 1777), Menochilus sexmaculatus (Fabricius 1781), Micraspis allardi (Mulsant 1853) and Propylea dissecta (Mulsant 1850) belonged to tribe Coccinellini (Latreille 1807) of subfamily Coccinellinae (Latreille 1807). Two species belonged to tribe Chilocorini (Costa 1849) of subfamily Chilocorinae (Mulsant 1846) i.e. Brumoides suturalis (Fabricius 1798) and Exochomus nigripennis (Erichson 1843). Two species namely Henosepilachna vigintioctopunctata (Fabricius 1775) and Scynmus nubilus (Mulsant 1850) represented respectively the tribe Epilachnini (Mulsant 1846) of subfamily Epilachninae (Mulsant 1846) and tribe Scymnini (Mulsant 1846) of subfamily Scymninae (Mulsant 1846). Among all the species, C. septempunctata was found widely distributed in all localities studied, whereas, Sargodha locality represented highest diversity indices of Shannon-Weiner's (1.65), Margalef's (1.40) and Simpson's (0.75).		[Ahmed, Kanwer Shahzad; Majeed, Muhammad Zeeshan; Afzal, Muhammad] Univ Sargodha, Univ Coll Agr, Dept Entomol, Sargodha, Pakistan; [Rafi, Muhammad Ather] Natl Agr Res Ctr, Natl Insect Museum, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Sellami, Fatima] Cadi Ayyad Univ, Marrakech, Morocco; [Majeed, Muhammad Zeeshan] Univ Sargodha, Univ Coll Agr, Dept Entomol, Sargodha, Pakistan								5							Zoology	WOS:000416295400024		
J	Park, Jong Myong; You, Young-Hyun; Park, Jong-Han; Kim, Hyeong-Hwan; Ghim, Sa-Youl; Back, Chang-Gi								Cutaneous Microflora from Geographically Isolated Groups of <i>Bradysia agrestis</i>, an Insect Vector of Diverse Plant Pathogens								MYCOBIOLOGY				45	3			160	171		10.5941/MYCO.2017.45.3.160			SEP 2017	2017	Larvae of Bradysia agrestis, an insect vector that transports plant pathogens, were sampled from geographically isolated regions in Korea to identify their cutaneous fungal and bacterial flora. Sampled areas were chosen within the distribution range of B. agrestis; each site was more than 91 km apart to ensure geographical segregation. We isolated 76 microbial (fungi and bacteria) strains (site 1, 29; site 2, 29; site 3, 18 strains) that were identified on the basis of morphological differences. Species identification was molecularly confirmed by determination of universal fungal internal transcribed spacer and bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences in comparison to sequences in the EzTaxon database and the NCBI GenBank database, and their phylogenetic relationships were determined. The fungal isolates belonged to 2 phyla, 5 classes, and 7 genera; bacterial species belonged to 23 genera and 32 species. Microbial diversity differed significantly among the geographical groups with respect to Margalef's richness (3.9, 3.6, and 4.5), Menhinick's index (2.65, 2.46, and 3.30), Simpson's index (0.06, 0.12, and 0.01), and Shannon's index (2.50, 2.17, and 2.58). Although the microbial genera distribution or diversity values clearly varied among geographical groups, common genera were identified in all groups, including the fungal genus Cladosporium, and the bacterial genera Bacillus and Rhodococcus. According to classic principles of co-evolutionary relationship, these genera might have a closer association with their host insect vector B. agrestis than other genera identified. Some cutaneous bacterial genera (e.g., Pseudomonas) displaying weak interdependency with insect vectors may be hazardous to agricultural environments via mechanical transmission via B. agrestis. This study provides comprehensive information regarding the cutaneous microflora of B. agrestis, which can help in the control of such pests for crop management.		[Park, Jong Myong; Ghim, Sa-Youl] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Inst Microorganisms, Sch Life Sci, Plus KNU Creat BioRes Grp BK21, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [You, Young-Hyun] Natl Inst Biol Resources, Microorganism Resources Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Park, Jong-Han; Kim, Hyeong-Hwan; Back, Chang-Gi] Natl Inst Hort Herbal Sci, Hort & Herbal Crop Environm Div, Rural Dev Adm, Wonju 55365, South Korea; [Ghim, Sa-Youl] Kyungpook Natl Univ, Inst Microorganisms, Sch Life Sci, Plus KNU Creat BioRes Grp BK21, Daegu 41566, South Korea; [Back, Chang-Gi] Natl Inst Hort Herbal Sci, Hort & Herbal Crop Environm Div, Rural Dev Adm, Wonju 55365, South Korea								4							Agronomy; Mycology	WOS:000416751600005		
J	Suetrong, Satinee; Preedanon, Sita; Klaysuban, Anupong; Gundool, Wunna; Unagul, Panida; Sakayaroj, Jariya; Promchu, Waratthaya; Sangtiean, Tanuwong								Distribution and occurrence of manglicolous marine fungi from eastern and southern Thailand								BOTANICA MARINA				60	4			503	514		10.1515/bot-2016-0107			AUG 2017	2017	The species diversity of marine fungi was investigated in eastern and southern Thailand. Senescent and decaying woody substrata were collected from intertidal mangrove forests located in Trat, Prachuap Khiri Khan and Phetchaburi Provinces. A total of 99 fungal species was recorded. These included 84 Ascomycota (85%), two Basidiomycota (2%) and 13 asexual fungi (13%). The average percentage occurrence of the fungi recorded from each site ranged from 0.1% to 13.7%. Based on the percentage of samples in which a particular taxon was found, the most frequent fungi were Quintaria lignatilis (8%), Rimora mangrovei (8%) and Salsuginea ramicola (7%). The results showed that 25 species were common to all three provinces. The Shannon- Wiener diversity index, equitability species evenness index and Margalef's species richness index were the highest in Trat Province, followed by Prachuap Khiri Khan and Phetchaburi Provinces. Moreover, eight fungal species were new records for Thailand: Aniptodera salsuginosa, Etheirophora bijubata, Etheirophora blepharospora, Neptunella longirostris, Oceanitis cincinnatula, Savoryella melanospora, Sedecimiella taiwanensis and Trichocladium lignicola, and there are three new species. The results from this study provide an insight into the diversity of marine fungi present in Thai mangroves bringing the current total number to 184 species.		[Suetrong, Satinee; Preedanon, Sita; Klaysuban, Anupong; Unagul, Panida; Sakayaroj, Jariya] Natl Sci & Technol Dev Agcy, Natl Ctr Genet Engn & Biotechnol BIOTEC, 113 Thailand Sci Pk, Amphoe Khlong Luang 12120, Pathum Thani, Thailand; [Gundool, Wunna; Promchu, Waratthaya; Sangtiean, Tanuwong] Dept Marine & Coastal Resources, 120 Moo 3 Ratthaprasasanabhakti Bldg Chaeng Watta, Bangkok, Thailand; [Suetrong, Satinee] Natl Sci & Technol Dev Agcy, Natl Ctr Genet Engn & Biotechnol BIOTEC, 113 Thailand Sci Pk, Amphoe Khlong Luang 12120, Pathum Thani, Thailand								9							Plant Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000407103000012		
J	Klibansky, Nikolai; Shertzer, Kyle W.; Kellison, G. Todd; Bacheler, Nathan M.								Can subsets of species indicate overall patterns in biodiversity?								ECOSPHERE				8	7					e01842	10.1002/ecs2.1842			JUL 2017	2017	Resource limitations often allow only a subset of species to be counted. But using subsets may bias inferences on spatial or temporal trends in biodiversity. Using data from a video survey on reefs in the Gulf of Mexico for which all fish species observed were counted (243 species), we investigated how the use of reduced species lists (RSLs) can impact perceived patterns in biodiversity. We estimated four common biodiversity metrics (species richness, and Margalef's, Shannon's, and Simpson's indices) at each of 2115 sampling locations, using the total species list and RSLs. For all diversity metrics, correlations between estimates using the total species list and RSLs increased with the number of species in the list. Using a bootstrap approach, we randomly generated hypothetical lists equal in length to each empirical RSL to evaluate their performance; empirical RSLs tended to perform similar to random lists of equivalent length when estimating species richness or Margalef's index, and tended to outperform most hypothetical RSLs when estimating Shannon's and Simpson's indices. To understand how to create better performing RSLs, we extended the bootstrap analysis to select RSLs of all possible lengths, using four different selection methods related to species commonness; the functional relationships between correlation and number of species in an RSL were similar among metrics but were very different among selection methods. With each hypothetical RSL, we tested common biodiversity hypotheses such as relationships with depth and latitude and compared the outcomes with the best estimate of true relationships identified using the total list. Longer lists comprised of the most common species more often identified the true relationship, but results showed complex patterns. Many short lists of the most common species yielded results opposite the true relationships, and many lists of intermediate length failed to identify any relationship while the total list showed a significant trend. Overall, these analyses show that sampling methods used for biodiversity studies should be as unselective as possible, and datasets based on more selective methods should be interpreted carefully and should not be expected to reflect true patterns in biodiversity.		[Klibansky, Nikolai; Shertzer, Kyle W.; Kellison, G. Todd; Bacheler, Nathan M.] NOAA, Southeast Fisheries Sci Ctr, Natl Marine Fisheries Serv, 101 Pivers Isl Rd, Beaufort, NC 28516 USA; [Klibansky, Nikolai] NOAA, Southeast Fisheries Sci Ctr, Natl Marine Fisheries Serv, 101 Pivers Isl Rd, Beaufort, NC 28516 USA								5							Ecology	WOS:000406332400013		
J	Yang, Hong; Lu, Guozhong; Jiang, Huiming; Shi, Dong-ning; Liu, Zhiheng								Diversity and distribution of soil micro-fungi along an elevation gradient on the north slope of Changbai Mountain								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				28	4			831	839		10.1007/s11676-016-0344-9			JUL 2017	2017	Elevational changes in patterns of diversity are important to understanding of the influence of global changes, yet few studies have addressed the distribution of microorganisms, e.g. soil micro-fungi. We studied the diversity of the forest soil micro-fungi in four vegetation belts along an elevation gradient on the north slope of Changbai Mountain in Changbai National Nature Reserve. The four belts were characterized as coniferous-deciduous mixed forest, coniferous forest, Erman's birch forest, and alpine tundra. We estimated the quantity and distribution of the fungal species in each belt and calculated three indices, viz. Shannon-Wiener diversity (H'), Pielou's evenness (J'), and Margalef's abundance (E), to depict fungal species diversity. A total of 932 strains were recorded and identified, representing 53 genera, and 108 species. Among these, Penicillium, Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Mucor, Rhizopus and Fusarium were the dominant genera. With increasing elevation, the quantity of fungi and values of H', E, and J' gradually declined.		[Yang, Hong; Lu, Guozhong] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Environm & Resources, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Huiming] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China; [Shi, Dong-ning] Liaoning Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dalian 116081, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhiheng] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Shenyang 110866, Peoples R China; [Lu, Guozhong] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Environm & Resources, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China								16							Forestry	WOS:000404234900019		
J	Liu, Hongmei; Liu, Xuemei; Jiang, Aili								Seasonal changes of macroalgal composition, biomass and assemblage diversity in the rocky intertidals of Zhifu Tombolo, China								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				46	6			1091	1097					JUN 2017	2017	In all seasons, red algae formed the component with the highest species number and biomass, brown algae ranked the second and green algae the last. The seasonal changes in total algal biomass in the assemblage were sequenced as following: August (228.64 g/m(2)) > October (161.63 g/m(2)) > June (207.29 g/m(2)) > April (117.19 g/m(2)) > December (77.96 g/m(2)) > February (41.29 g/m(2)). An outstanding seasonal variation of both macroalgal composition and dominance in the intertidal assemblage was observed during the survey. Species richness and diversity in the intertidal assemblage showed a seasonal rhythm in which the highest levels in Margalef's species richness index (R) and Shannon-Wiener's species diversity index (H') were found in April (R 6.23) and June (H' 3.08) respectively. In terms of the function of dominant species based on biomass the surveyed assemblages could be grouped into three macroalgal assemblage aspects: "Geldium - dominating spring-association", "Sargassum - dominating summer-association" and "Ulva - dominating autumn-winter - association".		[Liu, Hongmei] Yantai Univ, Ocean Sch, Yantai 264005, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xuemei] Yantai Univ, Coll Chem Engn, Yantai 264005, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Aili] Yantai Univ, Dept Biochem Engn, Yantai 264005, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Aili] Yantai Univ, Dept Biochem Engn, Yantai 264005, Shandong, Peoples R China								1							Oceanography	WOS:000406894600002		
J	Dash, Saumya; Behera, Rajesh Kumar; Mohapatra, Pradipta Kumar; Sarangi, R. K.; Raut, Dipti; Pati, Anupama; Patnaik, Lipika								Species composition of microzooplankton <i>Tintinnid</i> from the coastal waters of Digha, Bay of Bengal								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				189	6					258	10.1007/s10661-017-5961-z			JUN 2017	2017	Tintinnid species distribution and hydrography were studied in the coastal waters of Digha during winter (November 2015) and summer (March 2016) seasons. Surface water samples were collected from 11 different stations from 0 to 10 km offshore with the help of a mechanized trawler. Parameters like tintinnid species enumeration, zooplankton biomass, phytoplankton concentration (total chlorophyll) and abundance, sea surface temperature (SST), pH, transparency, salinity, dissolved oxygen (DO), total phosphate, silicate and nitrate were analysed. A total of 20 different tintinnid species (16 agglomerated +4 non-agglomerated) belonging to 6 genera were recorded from the study area with seasonal variation in tintinnid diversity, i.e. higher in summer (total 2745 individual/l) compared to winter (total 1191 individual/l). Tintinnopsis was the most dominant genus during both the seasons, i.e. 2100 individual/l in summer and 727 individual/l in winter, contributing about 76 and 61% population for the respective seasons. The correlation between species and water quality parameters showed that Tintinnopsis sp. abundance was significantly regulated by nitrate concentration, salinity, dissolved oxygen, water transparency and pH. However, the mentioned hydrological parameters were not the only factors regulating the tintinnid abundance. Tintinnid abundance was also found to be positively related with transparency (r = 0.732) and salinity (r = 0.524) and moderately related with dissolved oxygen (r = 0.488) whereas strong negative relation (at p = 0.05) was established between tintinnid abundance with nitrate (r = -0.681) and pH (r = -0.561). Bray-Curtis cluster analysis of tintinnid species showed more than 60% similarity. Shannon's diversity index (H'), Simpson's evenness index (D) and Margalef's species richness index were found to be higher in summer, i.e. 1.61, 0.729 and 1.612, compared to the winter season, i.e. 1.139, 0.597 and 1.268. k-dominance curve showed maximum abundance of Tintinnopsis baltica in winter and Tintinnopsis gracilis in summer. Principal component analysis (PCA) was analysed to find out the environmental variables affecting different tintinnid species diversity. A significant spatiotemporal variation in Tintinnid population distribution was observed from two-way ANOVA. The results reflect significant seasonal (F = 840.0), spatial (F = 47.3) and interactive variation (F = 71.2) among the ciliate microzooplankton at n = 66, p = 0.001. High chlorophyll content and phytoplankton population in summer indicated that tintinnid diversity in the season was positively influenced by producer community in coastal waters of Digha.		[Dash, Saumya; Raut, Dipti; Pati, Anupama; Patnaik, Lipika] Ravenshaw Univ, Dept Zool, Environm Sci Lab, Cuttack 753003, Orissa, India; [Behera, Rajesh Kumar; Mohapatra, Pradipta Kumar] Ravenshaw Univ, Dept Bot, Cuttack 753003, Orissa, India; [Sarangi, R. K.] ISRO, Space Applicat Ctr, BPSG EPSA, Marine Ecosyst Div, Ahmadabad 380015, Gujarat, India; [Patnaik, Lipika] Ravenshaw Univ, Dept Zool, Environm Sci Lab, Cuttack 753003, Orissa, India								4							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000403083300015		
J	Rahman, Md. B.; Hoque, Md. Sazedul Z.; Rahman, Md. M.; Nahar, A.								Exploration of fishing gear and fisheries diversity of Agunmukha River at Galachipa Upazila in Patuakhali District of Bangladesh								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				16	1			108	126					FEB 2017	2017	Agunmukha River is an important water body having plentiful aquatic resources. The fisheries communities in the river are familiar with a diverse range of fishing gear and crafts to catch fish. Therefore, the objectives of the present study were to explore fishing gear and fishing crafts, catch composition of the respective gearand identification of fish biodiversity of Agunmukha River. A step wise validated questionnaire was used for data recording from February 2015 to August 2015. In total, 19 types of fishing gear were identified under 9 major categories. On the other hand, in view of fisheries biodiversity, 47 fish species were listed covering 28 families of which Cyprinidae was found as the most dominant family which contains 9 species under 7 genera followed by Bagridae having 5 species belonging to 3 genera and Engraulidae also containing 3 species under 3 different genera. The study described 7 vulnerable, 5 endangered and 2 critically endangered species out of 42 finfish species. Diversity indexes were calculated for the present finding of which Margalef s index (d) was 5.13 for species available in the study area. Due to unawareness and indiscriminate fish caught with a small mesh size net, diversity of fish species in the river is under threat. Thus, public awareness and adequate knowledge on use of appropriate fishing gear with appropriate mesh size could contribute to sustainable fisheries diversity in the river and the improvement in livelihood of the fishermen in the adjacent area.		[Rahman, Md. B.; Hoque, Md. Sazedul Z.; Rahman, Md. M.] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries Technol, Fac Fisheries, Dumki 8602, Patuakhali, Bangladesh; [Nahar, A.] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Marine Fisheries & Oceanog, Fac Fisheries, Dumki 8602, Patuakhali, Bangladesh; [Hoque, Md. Sazedul Z.] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries Technol, Fac Fisheries, Dumki 8602, Patuakhali, Bangladesh								5							Fisheries	WOS:000396492400009		
J	Chatterjee, Asitava; Adhikari, Shuvadip; Mukhopadhyay, Subhra Kumar								Effects of Waterbird Colonization on Limnochemical Features of a Natural Wetland on Buxa Tiger Reserve, India, During Wintering Period								WETLANDS				37	1			177	190		10.1007/s13157-016-0851-7			FEB 2017	2017	Present study recorded the effects of migratory bird congregation on the limnochemistry of a pristine wetland, devoid of anthropogenic activities, especially on nutrient loading. Nararthali wetland, on Buxa Tiger Reserve was studied for three consecutive years (October through March). Forty eight bird species belonging to thirty three genera and twelve families were recorded during study period. Winter visitors were 45.83 % of all species recorded. Nararthali wetland was characterized by high Shannon-Wiener diversity index (1.992 to 2.693) and Margalef's richness index (6.666 to 9.333). Avian density increased with the decrease in day length. Changes in the differences between maximum and minimum temperatures were also observed to influence migration. However, guanotrophy of the wetland system was evident and a good number of migrants along with residents showed significant positive correlations with nutrients like phosphate, nitrate and biologically important divalent cations. As listed in IUCN Red List, one critically endangered species, three vulnerable and four near threatened species recorded from studied site pointed out the importance of such natural wetlands inside forested tracts at the foothills of Himalaya from conservation standpoint.		[Chatterjee, Asitava] Alipurduar Forest Corp Div, Off Div Manager, Alipurduar 736121, W Bengal, India; [Adhikari, Shuvadip; Mukhopadhyay, Subhra Kumar] Govt Coll Engn & Leather Technol, Ecotechnol Project Lab, Sect 3, Block LB, Kolkata 700098, W Bengal, India; [Adhikari, Shuvadip] Govt Coll Engn & Leather Technol, Ecotechnol Project Lab, Sect 3, Block LB, Kolkata 700098, W Bengal, India								9							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000394134600016		
J	Maji, Deepamala; Misra, Pooja; Singh, Sucheta; Kalra, Alok								Humic acid rich vermicompost promotes plant growth by improving microbial community structure of soil as well as root nodulation and mycorrhizal colonization in the roots of <i>Pisum sativum</i>								APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY				110				97	108		10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.10.008			FEB 2017	2017	Humic acid rich vermicompost (HARV) was used to impart plant and soil health as compared to chemical fertilizers (CF), and normal vermicompost (NV) involving pea (Pisum sativum cv. Bonneville) as the host plant. The plant growth parameters of the crop were recorded at the time of harvesting and soil microbial structure was studied by using DGGE (Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis) on a temporal basis (0 day, 12th day, 30th day and 60th day). The growth parameters showed an increase of 34.04%, 50.61% and 33.12% in total height, fresh weight, and dry weight as compared to conventional chemical fertilizers (CF) and 25.53%, 70.13% and 59.49% as compared to control. The DGGE profiles revealed that maximum bacterial and fungal diversity and density occur in soil supplemented with HARV on 12th day (both Shannon's index and Margalef's index showed highest bacterial diversity (2.87) and richness (5.52) and highest fungal diversity (2.76) and richness (4.96)). The lowest values for the indices (Margalef's and Shannon for bacteria 2.51 and 1.78 and Margalef's and Shannon for fungi 2.12 and 1.43 respectively) were observed in CF applied soils on the 60th day where diversity was even lower than in case of control soil indicating the negative impacts of chemical fertilizers on soil microbial diversities. Amendment of soil with organic fertilizers improved root nodulation and AMF colonization; the increment being higher in HARV. External application of AMF and Rhizobium further improved these parameters suggesting that AMF and Rhizobium act synergistically with HARV in improving plant growth and soil health. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Maji, Deepamala; Misra, Pooja; Singh, Sucheta; Kalra, Alok] CSIR Cent Inst Med & Aromat Plants, Microbial Technol Dept, PO CIMAP CSIR, Lucknow 226015, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kalra, Alok] CSIR Cent Inst Med & Aromat Plants, Microbial Technol Dept, PO CIMAP CSIR, Lucknow 226015, Uttar Pradesh, India								119							Soil Science	WOS:000389757800011		
J	Lumeran, Belen T.			IEEE					Relating Alpha Diversity of Gastropods in Predicting Climate Change								2017 4TH IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIES AND APPLIED SCIENCES (ICETAS)														2017	2017	Climate change is a phenomenon which affects community structure of a particular marine ecosystem. A 4-year annual monitoring of Alpha (alpha) diversity of intertidal gastropods in Asry Beach, Kingdom of Bahrain is used as a predictor of climate change in this particular study. Specifically, to list and classify taxonomically the intertidal gastropods; determine the annual alpha-diversity and species richness using Shannon [H] and Margalef's (d) diversity indices; find out significant differences in the calculated alpha-diversity; relate the calculated alpha-diversity in predicting climate change based on atmospheric temperature as secondary data and monitor substrate temperature in the study area. Taxonomic listing and identification of gastropods show 16 families, 25 genera and 22 species. Alpha diversity and species richness vary annually using Shannon [H] and Margalef's (d) diversity indices. Results depicted higher H value (1.271) in 2015-2015 and lowest (1.183) in 2013-2014 while higher (d) values (7.652) 2013-2014 and 2015-2016. However, there is no significant difference at p= 0.5 in the calculated indices using ANOVA. The stability of the community structure is determined by evenness and distribution of its taxonomic components in relation to all other species. Correlation analysis (r=0.669) showed that atmospheric temperature exert an effect on the abundance of species and their distribution in that particular area. However, species richness may not be affected by the changes in atmospheric temperature (r=0.214). Alpha diversity of gastropods may be used to predict climate change with the continuous increase in atmospheric temperature. The mean variations in both annual atmospheric temperature (28.7 degrees C -29.8 degrees C) and substrate temperature of 31 degrees C-33.3 degrees C maintain a stable community structure composed of the taxonomic groups of intertidal gastropods. However, it is yet difficult to accurately estimate and predict how climate change exerts an effect on biodiversity both in spatial and temporal scales.		[Lumeran, Belen T.] AMA Int Univ, Dept Math & Sci, Salmabad, Bahrain; [Lumeran, Belen T.] AMA Int Univ, Dept Math & Sci, Salmabad, Bahrain				4th IEEE International Conference on Engineering Technologies and Applied Sciences (ICETAS)	NOV 29-DEC 01, 2017	IEEE	AMA INT UNIV, BAHRAIN	0							Engineering, Electrical & Electronic	WOS:000426983900067		
J	Dias, Karina G. A.; Alves, Carlos A.; Da Silva, Reinaldo J.; Abdallah, Vanessa D.; De Azevedo, Rodney K.								Parasitic communities of <i>Hoplosternum littorale</i> (Hancock, 1828) as indicators of environmental impact								ANAIS DA ACADEMIA BRASILEIRA DE CIENCIAS				89	3			2317	2325		10.1590/0001-3765201720160792			2017	2017	The parasites are indicative of several biological aspects of their hosts, including their diet, migration, recruitment and phylogeny, but they can also be direct indicators of the environmental quality. Hoplosternum littorale is a fish that has a high commercial value in some South American countries. The fishes were collected from January to July 2012, in two locations of the Peixe River in the municipality of Anhembi, State of Sao Paulo, Brazil, which had different environmental and limnological characteristics (river mouth and Lagoa Cabeca de Boi). An amount of 30 fish specimens were captured in each location for the analysis of their parasitic fauna. Nine species of metazoan parasites were collected. Both Brillouin's diversity index and Margalef's richness index were greater in the Lagoa Cabeca de Boi. The ratio of heteroxenous and monoxenous parasite species richness (S-H/S-M) was higher in the Lagoa Cabeca de Boi. The results of the physicochemical analysis of the water showed that the mouth of the Peixe River can be considered an area that suffers more from anthropogenic actions than the Lagoa da Cabeca de Boi. Proteocephalus sp., Gyrodactylus sp., Scleroductus sp. and Capillaria (Neocapillaria) pterophylli are being registered for the first time in this host.		[Dias, Karina G. A.; Alves, Carlos A.; Da Silva, Reinaldo J.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Inst Biociencias Botucatu, Dept Parasitol, Rua Prof Dr Antonio Celso Wagner Zanin S-N, BR-18618689 Botucatu, SP, Brazil; [Abdallah, Vanessa D.; De Azevedo, Rodney K.] Univ Sagrado Coracao, Cent Ciencia & Tecnol Ambiental, Rua Irma Arminda 1050, BR-17011160 Bauru, SP, Brazil; [Abdallah, Vanessa D.] Univ Sagrado Coracao, Cent Ciencia & Tecnol Ambiental, Rua Irma Arminda 1050, BR-17011160 Bauru, SP, Brazil								5							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000416000400032		
J	Pallottini, Matteo; Goretti, Enzo; Selvaggi, Roberta; Cappelletti, David; Dedieu, Nicolas; Cereghino, Regis								An efficient semi-quantitative macroinvertebrate multimetric index for the assessment of water and sediment contamination in streams								INLAND WATERS				7	3			314	322		10.1080/20442041.2017.1329912			2017	2017	Environmental issues and their associated legislative pressures are demanding, especially regarding costs, limited budgets, and data collection efforts. The development of effective biotic indices for monitoring generated via comprehensive data collection within human-impacted landscapes can support district-to regional-level environmental management plans. We designed a macroinvertebrate multimetric index that fulfills the requirements of the EU Water Framework Directive and measures ecological health as a deviation from a reference state, taking into consideration water and sediment contamination in streams of Central Italy. Macroinvertebrate samples were obtained by a semi-quantitative technique. The Semi-quantitative Multimetric Index (SMI) we developed has a high discrimination efficiency (reference vs. impacted sites), high stability (i.e., low coefficient of variation) at reference sites, and low specificity regarding the environmental variables reflecting contamination. The SMI is composed of 4 metrics weighted by their discrimination efficiency against reference conditions: number of families, score of the biological monitoring waters pollution index (SBWMP), Margalef's diversity index, and relative richness of shredders. These metrics that best distinguished reference from impacted sites were selected from 71 metrics divided into 4 categories (one metric for each category): richness/abundance, tolerance, diversity, bioecological traits. The SMI exemplifies a cost-effective method that could complement supranational techniques because it is robust in terms of biological, ecological, and socioeconomic contexts used to generate it; requires little effort for the data collection; and responds to a large number of environmental stressors. To ensure comparability, however, we recommend calibrating the new SMI index against the national index currently in use.		[Pallottini, Matteo; Goretti, Enzo; Selvaggi, Roberta; Cappelletti, David] Univ Perugia, Dipartimento Chim Biol & Biotecnol, Perugia, Italy; [Pallottini, Matteo; Dedieu, Nicolas; Cereghino, Regis] Univ Toulouse, CNRS, Lab Ecol Fonct & Environm, EcoLab, Toulouse, France; [Goretti, Enzo] Univ Perugia, Dipartimento Chim Biol & Biotecnol, Perugia, Italy								13							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000412646100009		
J	Mokhayer, Z.; Nadushan, Mousavi R.; Rabbaniha, M.; Fatemi, M. R.; Jamili, Sh								Community composition and diversity of zooplankton in the northwest Persian Gulf								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				16	2			722	732					2017	2017	Survey on zooplankton composition was studied during June 2015 to March 2016, by selecting six stations along the coastal waters of Bushehr (the Northwest Persian Gulf). Twenty four zooplankton taxa were identified, and the different zooplankton groups represented twenty-one families. Copepoda was recorded with the most abundance (53.30 %) followed by Malacostraca (32.87 %), which in turn was followed by Sagittoidea (7.44 %) and Appendicularia (6.39%). A major peak of 189.34 N/m(3) was observed in February-2016 with 53.25% contribution from Copepoda. Among Copepoda, Labidocera sp. was the major contributor to this peak. Appendicularia was the comparatively less represented group, being chiefly represented by Oikopleura dioica. Labidocera sp., Oithona plumifera which were common in most of the stations. This common distribution were observed for Malacostraca, namely Lucifer hanseni (mysis I), Upogebia sp. (zoea I), Parthenope sp., Ilyoplax frater( zoea VI), for Sagittoidea, namely Sagitta enflata, Sagitta neglecta and for Appendicularia, namely Oikopleura dioica. The mean Shannon's diversity index (H') and evenness were 1.36+/-0.43 and, 0.68+/-1.17, respectively. The highest Margalef's index was recorded in station-6 (2.72+/-1.32) and the lowest in station-2 (1.98+/-0.89). According to nonsignificant differences between temporal and spatial zooplankton density and Shannon's index, from an ecological point of view, it seems the study area is unique and the zooplankton composition is homogenous.		[Mokhayer, Z.; Fatemi, M. R.; Jamili, Sh] Islamic Azad Univ, Sci & Res Branch, Dept Marine Sci & Technol, Tehran, Iran; [Nadushan, Mousavi R.] Islamic Azad Univ, North Tehran Branch, Dept Marine Sci & Technol, Tehran, Iran; [Rabbaniha, M.; Jamili, Sh] AREEO, IFSRI, Tehran, Iran; [Rabbaniha, M.] AREEO, IFSRI, Tehran, Iran								5							Fisheries	WOS:000405773400020		
J	Francis, A. W., Jr.; Knight, M. S.								A comparison of bridled and bridle-less ichthyoplankton nets in a variable flow estuarine environment								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ICHTHYOLOGY				32	6			1058	1064		10.1111/jai.13152			DEC 2016	2016	The effectiveness of bridled and bridle-less plankton nets for sampling ichthyoplankton from a fixed structure in a variable flow environment was examined. From 22 June to 19 September 2011, larval and juvenile fishes were collected weekly during night flood tides from the Moon River, an estuarine tidal creek south of Savannah, Georgia, USA. Passive horizontal tows were made from a fishing pier using two ichthyoplankton nets, each with a 1m diameter hoop and 1mm mesh. A bridled plankton net was configured with a tow rope attached to a traditional three-point bridle anchored to the hoop and a closed, 1L collection jar at the cod end. A bridle-less net was configured with a tow rope and a float tied to the top of the hoop while a weight was tied to the bottom of the hoop. The cod end of the bridle-less net had an open collection bucket with 1mm mesh. Nets were deployed simultaneously in the water column, just below the surface, for three consecutive 30-min tows. For each sampling date, pair-wise comparisons of nets were performed on mean values of fish abundance, species richness, species diversity, and species evenness. Mean abundance was the only consistent difference between bridled and bridle-less nets, with the bridle-less net having on average 4.870 times more fishes. Species richness (as measured by both number of species and Margalef's species richness index) tended to be greater in the bridle-less net, but not significantly greater. Species diversity (Shannon-Wiener diversity index) and species evenness (Pielou's evenness index) were also not significantly different between the two nets.		[Francis, A. W., Jr.; Knight, M. S.] Armstrong State Univ, Dept Biol, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Francis, A. W., Jr.] Armstrong State Univ, Dept Biol, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								0							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000387857900006		
J	Ochocka, A.; Pasztaleniec, A.								Sensitivity of plankton indices to lake trophic conditions								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				188	11					622	10.1007/s10661-016-5634-3			NOV 2016	2016	Herein, we report the response of indices based on phytoplankton and zooplankton and their combination to different nutrient concentrations in lakes. The study was carried out in ten lakes in northeastern Poland. Integrated samples were collected from the epilimnion during the summer of 2012-2013. Secchi disk visibility (SD), total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen (TN), and chlorophyll a were used as proxies for eutrophication. We calculated 16 plankton indices: two phytoplankton indices, six crustacean indices, five rotiferan indices, two zooplankton diversity indices, and one combined phytoplankton and zooplankton index. Among them, nine indices with the strongest correlations with TP were selected: percentage share of Crustacean species indicative of high trophy in the indicative group's numbers (IHTCRU), percentage share of Rotifera species indicative of high trophy in the indicative group's numbers IHTROT, Crustacean ratio of biomass to numbers B/N-CRU, phytoplankton trophic index (TITP+TN), Margalef's index, percentage share of cyclopoid biomass in total biomass of Crustacea (CB), Rotifera numbers (N-ROT), biomass of Cyclopoida (B-CY), and ratio of the cyclopoid biomass to the biomass of Cladocera (CY/CL). The sensitivity of the normalized values of these indices to proxies of eutrophication was tested. IHTCRU, IHTROT, and B/N-CRU were the most sensitive and gave the strongest responses at lower TP concentrations (<35 mu g/L). The phytoplankton trophic index, TITP+TN, together with the zooplankton-based Margalef's index and CB were very sensitive in both low (<35 mu g/L) and high (>60 mu g/L) TP conditions. On the other hand, N-ROT, B-CY, and CY/CL were slightly sensitive at low TP concentrations while their reaction was notable at high TP concentrations. A similar pattern of response was observed for TN concentration and SD visibility.		[Ochocka, A.; Pasztaleniec, A.] Natl Res Inst, Dept Freshwater Assessment Methods & Monitoring, Inst Environm Protection, Kolektorska 4, PL-01692 Warsaw, Poland; [Ochocka, A.] Natl Res Inst, Dept Freshwater Assessment Methods & Monitoring, Inst Environm Protection, Kolektorska 4, PL-01692 Warsaw, Poland								32							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000388202300023		
J	Hu Zhongjun; Jia Xixi; Chen Xihua; Zhang Ying; Liu Qigen								Spatial and seasonal pattern of macrozoobenthic assemblages and the congruence in water quality bioassessment using different taxa in artificial Mingzhu Lake in Shanghai								CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				34	5			928	936		10.1007/s00343-016-4244-9			SEP 2016	2016	The spatial and seasonal pattern of macrozoobenthic structure and its relationship with environmental factors were studied from July 2006 to April 2008 in Mingzhu Lake, Chongming Island, Shanghai at the Changjiang River mouth. The congruences in water quality bioassessment based on diversity and biotic indices and using different taxonomic categories were also explored to find the best assessment method of water quality for the lake. All major structural characteristics of macrozoobenthic community, including species composition, abundance, biomass and four biomass-based diversity indices (Shannon's diversity, Simpson's diversity, Pielou's evenness and Simpson's evenness index) fluctuated significantly in season but in space. The above four abundance-based diversity indices plus abundance-based Margalef's richness index did not display significant spatial variations; and significant seasonal differences were found in three indices only. Water temperature was the key environmental factor responsible for macrozoobenthic spatio-temporal distribution patterns. Water quality assessed by Shannon's index (H-a') and biological pollution index (BPI) rather than the other four biotic indices were consistent with those by trophic state index (TSI). Results from chironomids and oligochaetes did not always agree to those from the whole community when H-a' or Hilsenhoff biotic index was applied to bioassessment. Therefore, combining multiple indices and avoiding a single taxonomic category to assess water quality are strongly recommended and in Mingzhu Lake using a mixture of H-a' and BPI will ensure the most effective investigation of water quality. Our results also show that the main structural characteristics of macrozoobenthic communities in the small lake may display consistent spatial patterns.		[Hu Zhongjun; Jia Xixi; Zhang Ying; Liu Qigen] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Fisheries Germplasm Resources, Shanghai 201306, Peoples R China; [Chen Xihua] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yangtze River Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Biodivers Conservat & Utilizat, Wuhan 434000, Peoples R China; [Liu Qigen] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Fisheries Germplasm Resources, Shanghai 201306, Peoples R China								1							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000379737000005		
J	Pesic, Vladimir; Dmitrovic, Dejan; Savic, Ana; von Fumetti, Stefanie								Studies on eucrenal-hypocrenal zonation of springs along the river mainstream: A case study of a karst canyon in Bosnia and Herzegovina								BIOLOGIA				71	7			809	817		10.1515/biolog-2016-0095			JUL 2016	2016	The canyons in Dinaric karst are known to harbour a diverse aquatic fauna living in springs along the river mainstream. However, the knowledge on the ecology of these springs and also on the springs in mountainous areas of the Balkan Peninsula in general is poor. This study is focused on the macroinvertebrate assemblages of three different types of springs along the Cvrcka River (Republic of Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina). The aim of this study was to check whether existing criteria for regional spring zonations in Central Europe are applicable also for riparian springs with short springbrooks bordering high order streams. The macroinvertebrates were collected seasonally for one year at two different distances from the source: at the source, and approximately 2-3 m from the source ("springbrook"). At the spring sources, we found 59 species and higher taxa while in the springbrooks 61 species and higher taxa were recorded. Diptera represented the most abundant taxon, followed by Amphipoda and Trichoptera. No strong trend for the Margalef's index for the spring source and springbrook was detected, while the Shannon's diversity index increased in the springbrook of the studied springs. Our analysis did not prove significant differences between the macroinvertebrate assemblages from the source and springbrook. Based on faunistic data we suggest that small riparian springs with a short outflow likely do not exhibit true spring zonation but may show a "quasi-zonation" defined as a possible hidden differentiation between spring source and springbrook. Our study shows that criteria for spring zonation are not suitable for riparian springs bordering high order streams.		[Pesic, Vladimir] Univ Montenegro, Dept Biol, Cetinjski Put Bb, Podgorica 81000, Montenegro; [Dmitrovic, Dejan] Univ Banja Luka, Dept Biol, Mladena Stojanovica 2, Banja Luka, Republic Of Srp, Bosnia & Herceg; [Savic, Ana] Univ Nis, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol & Ecol, Visegradska 33, Nish 18000, Serbia; [von Fumetti, Stefanie] Univ Basel, Dept Environm Sci, St Johanns Vorstadt 10, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland; [Pesic, Vladimir] Univ Montenegro, Dept Biol, Cetinjski Put Bb, Podgorica 81000, Montenegro								14							Biology	WOS:000382261100011		
J	Mbaka, John G.; M'Erimba, Charles M.; Karanja, Henry T.; Mathooko, Jude M.; Mwaniki, Mercy W.								Does the exclusion of meiofauna affect the estimation of biotic indices using stream invertebrates?								AFRICAN ZOOLOGY				51	2			91	97		10.1080/15627020.2016.1196120			2016	2016	Biomonitoring of rivers is usually undertaken using information based on macroinvertebrate assemblages. However, exclusion of meiofauna (i.e. invertebrates less than 0.5 mm in size) when sorting benthic invertebrates can affect the estimation of densities and other biotic indices. In the present study, the effect of excluding the less than 0.5 mm fraction of invertebrates on estimation of benthic invertebrate indices was investigated in the Naro Moru River, Kenya. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, a multimetric index, Simpson's diversity index, Margalef's diversity index, mean invertebrate density, taxa richness, and Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT) densities were determined. Only mean invertebrate and EPT densities differed significantly between the greater than 0.5 mm and total fractions. In conclusion, exclusion of meiofauna from invertebrate samples can affect the estimation of some stream invertebrate biotic indices.		[Mbaka, John G.; M'Erimba, Charles M.] Egerton Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Nakuru, Kenya; [Karanja, Henry T.] Egerton Univ, Dept Nat Resources, Nakuru, Kenya; [Mathooko, Jude M.] Global Res Akad & Mentoring Serv, Nakuru, Kenya; [Mwaniki, Mercy W.] Jomo Kenyatta Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Geomat Engn & Geospatial Informat Sci, Nairobi, Kenya; [Mbaka, John G.] Egerton Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Nakuru, Kenya								1							Zoology	WOS:000382558100003		
J	Liliana Barrios-Tones, Pilar; Villegas-Guzman, Gabriel A.								Mites associated with two species of the genus <i>Odontotaenius</i> (Coleoptera: Passalidae) in Mexico								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				63	3			659	671		10.15517/rbt.v63i3.15745			SEP 2015	2015	Mites can establish association with different arthropods as coleopterans families Scarabaeidae and Passalidae. Passalids are distributed in tropical and templates zones, and until now, more than 200 species of mites have been associated to them. One of the relationships between passalids and mites is the phoresy where one small animal (the phoretic) seeks out and attaches to another animal (the host) for transportation. Herein, we studied the mites associated to O. zodiacus and O. striatopunctatus; for this, 80 Odontotaenius with mites were reviewed; passalids were collected in and under decaying logs from six states of Mexico, and were individually kept in vials with 80% ethanol. The specimens were carried to the laboratory and mites removed with fine-pointed forceps under stereo microscope. The mites were stored with 80 % alcohol until some were cleared with lacto-phenol and mounted in Hoyer's solution. We found 1 945 mites belonging to 13 families (Acaridae, Ascidae, Diarthrophallidae, Digamasellidae, Diplogyniidae, Euzerconidae, Heterocheylidae, Histiostomatidae, Klinckowstroemiidae, Laelapidae, Megisthanidae, Trematuridae, and Uropodidae) and 42 species, being the most abundant species Anoetus sp. For O. striatopunctatus (16 specimens) we found 562 mites (95 female female, 34 males, 197 hypopus, 234 deutonymph, 2 tritonymph) of 11 families and 22 species; the most abundant were Uropodidae (42 %) and Histiostomatidae (26 %). While for 0. zodiacus (64 specimens) were found 1 383 mites (300 9, 204 66, 608 hypopus, 139 deutonymphs, 133 tritonymphs) of 10 families and 30 species; the most abundant were: Diartrophallidae, Acaridae, and Histiostomatidae (23 % for the two first and 21 % for third). The high abundance and richness was in O. zodiacus, likewise Margalef (S') and Shanon-Winner (H') indexes were higher in this species (O. zodiacus S' = 4.05, H' = 2.2; 0 striatopienctatus S' = 3.34, H' = 1.94), while Equity (E-H) was similar to both hosts (O. zodiacus E-H = 0.64; 0. striatopunctatus E-H = 0.63). The mites were found principally in the protected zone of the passalid's body, as under elytron, membranous wings, and in the clefts of the ventral region of the passalid, and, in minor proportion, on the head and coxal regions. From our findings, 12 species were new records for the Mexican passalids: Abrotarsala cuneiformis, A. obesa, A. pyriformis, Brachytremella sp., Diarthrophallus cartwrighti, D. crinatus, Lombardiniella sp., Trichodiplogynium carlosi, T sahlbergi, T hirsutum and Thichodiplogynium sp., and additional studies may help describe and understand these mites-passalids associations.		[Liliana Barrios-Tones, Pilar; Villegas-Guzman, Gabriel A.] Escuela Nacl Ciencias Biol, IPN, Lab Acarol Dra Isabel Bassols Batalla, Prolongac Carpio, Mexico City 11340, DF, Mexico; [Liliana Barrios-Tones, Pilar] Escuela Nacl Ciencias Biol, IPN, Lab Acarol Dra Isabel Bassols Batalla, Prolongac Carpio, Esquina Con Plan de Ayala S-N, Mexico City 11340, DF, Mexico								2							Biology	WOS:000366149200009		
J	Liu, Ting; Guo, Rui; Ran, Wei; Whalen, Joann K.; Li, Huixin								Body size is a sensitive trait-based indicator of soil nematode community response to fertilization in rice and wheat agroecosystems								SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY				88				275	281		10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.05.027			SEP 2015	2015	Nematode body size is a trait that could be responsive to environmental changes, such as agricultural management practices, and adopted as a standard trait-based indicator in soil community analysis. Our study investigated how body size in the nematode community responded to fertilization in a double-cropping system with paddy rice and upland wheat. Four fertilizer treatments were examined: an unfertilized control (CK), chemical fertilizer (CF), manure plus chemical fertilizer (MCF) and manure plus straw plus chemical fertilizer (MSCF). The community-weighted mean (CWM) of body size was the trait-based indicator used for nematode community analysis. A trend of increasing body size in fertilized plots was observed for most genera, with a relatively small increase in the size of small-bodied bacterivores and fungivores and a relatively large increase in the size of large-bodied omnivores. Fertilized plots had significantly greater CWM of body size than the Cl( treatment, although total nematode abundance increased significantly in the MSCF treatment only. Discriminant and multiple regression analyses showed that CWM of body size was positively correlated with the soil organic C, total N, available P and available K concentrations, which responded to fertilizer inputs. In contrast, soil fertility was weakly related to total body size in the wheat phase and the following abundance-based indicators: Margalef's richness index, Shannon's diversity index, summed maturity index (Sigma MI) and enrichment index (EI) in both phases. Since fertilization resulted in larger body size but no other change in the nematode community (i.e. diversity and abundance were generally unaffected by fertilization), this implies that nematodes have a plastic growth habit that does not necessarily result in greater reproduction or fitness of offspring. We suggest that CWM of body size is a reliable trait-based indicator of the soil nematode community response to fertilization, but this requires further testing across a wider range of fertilized agroecosystems. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Liu, Ting; Guo, Rui; Ran, Wei; Li, Huixin] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Ting; Whalen, Joann K.] McGill Univ, Dept Nat Resource Sci, Montreal, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada; [Whalen, Joann K.] McGill Univ, Dept Nat Resource Sci, Montreal, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada								44							Soil Science	WOS:000359880600031		
J	Cantarelli, Edison Bisognin; Fleck, Marciane Danniela; Granzotto, Fabiane; Corassa, Janana De Nadai; d'Avila, Marcia								DIVERSITY OF ANTS (HYMENOPTERA: FORMICIDAE) OF LITTER IN DIFFERENT SYSTEMS OF SOIL USE								CIENCIA FLORESTAL				25	3			607	616		10.5902/1980509819612			JUL-SEP 2015	2015	Litter ant species found in four sites located in northwestern Rio Grande do Sul state were listed in this study to verify the impact of human activities conducted in rural areas. The method used for the collection of litter ants was the Winkler extractor. There were collected 6,300 specimens belonging to eight subfamilies, 18 tribes, 31 genera and 108 species. Native forest presented the highest richness observed with 90 species collected, followed by 65 eucalyptus species, and agriculture and pasture with 20 exotic species each. Margalef's diversity index was 11.21 for area with native forest, 8.37 for eucalypt, 3.48 for agriculture, and 2.71 in exotic pasture area. The Shannon's diversity indices obtained were 2.89, 3.15, 2.43 and 1.98 and equitability indices of 0.64, 0.75, 0.84 and 0.66 for areas with native forest, eucalyptus, agriculture and exotic pasture, respectively. The highest diversity index for the eucalypt area may be due to the age of the forest (28 years) and the fact that it has not been managed as well as due to the presence of understory of native species, forming a continuous canopy and thick litter layer. On the other hand, since the native forest has suffered human interventions, it has a lower Shannon's diversity index compared to the eucalypt area.		[Cantarelli, Edison Bisognin; d'Avila, Marcia] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Educ Super Norte Rio Grande Sul, Dept Engn Florestal, BR-98400000 Frederico Westphalen, RS, Brazil; [Fleck, Marciane Danniela] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Ciencias Rurais, Programa Posgrad Engn Florestal, BR-97105000 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Granzotto, Fabiane] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Tecnol, Programa Posgrad Engn Proc, BR-97105000 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Corassa, Janana De Nadai] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Inst Ciencias Agr & Ambientais, BR-78557267 Sinop, MT, Brazil; [Cantarelli, Edison Bisognin] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Educ Super Norte Rio Grande Sul, Dept Engn Florestal, BR386,Km 40,Linha 7 Setembro, BR-98400000 Frederico Westphalen, RS, Brazil								8							Plant Sciences; Forestry	WOS:000365022000007		
J	Vincy, M. V.; Brilliant, R.; Paul, Joby; Pradeepkumar, A. P.								Comparison of riparian species diversity between the main river channel and subwatersheds of Meenachil river basin, Kerala, Southern India								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY				38	1			81	98		10.1007/s40415-014-0068-z			MAR 2015	2015	The present work aimed to evaluate the riparian species diversity of five subwatersheds of the Meenachil river basin (1208.1 km(2)) and to compare that with the main river channel. A total of 441 species were recorded belonging to 106 families. The Leguminosae was represented by the highest number of species (39 spp.) followed by Poaceae (25 spp.). The quantitative features such as density and importance value index of species varied greatly. In the present study, the diversity index of shrubs and herbs was found to be higher than the tree species. The concentration of dominance was recorded highest in the tree species. Shannon-Wiener index (H') ranged from 1.0 to 2.95. The Margalef's species richness index varied from 2.43 to 6.69, equitability or evenness index varied from 0.62 to 1.42, the species heterogeneity index varied from 0.4 to 0.83, and Mc Intosh diversity index varied from 56.57 to 329.27. A greater number of tree species fell in 41-60 cm girth at breast height, but less number of tree individuals is represented in above 100-cm diameter class.		[Vincy, M. V.; Paul, Joby] Mahatma Gandhi Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Kottayam 686560, Kerala, India; [Brilliant, R.] St Johns Coll, PG Dept Environm Sci, Anchal, India; [Pradeepkumar, A. P.] Univ Kerala, Dept Geol, Kariyavattom, India; [Vincy, M. V.] Mahatma Gandhi Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Kottayam 686560, Kerala, India								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000355139900009		
J	Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.								Assessment of carbon density and accumulation in mono- and multi-specific stands in Teak and Sal forests of a tropical dry region in India								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				339				11	21		10.1016/j.foreco.2014.12.002			MAR 1 2015	2015	We investigated vegetation characteristics, carbon density (CD) and carbon accumulation (CA) of trees in mono- and multi-specific, Tectona grandis (Teak) and Shorea robusta (Sal) forest stands in a tropical dry region of India to address the following questions: (i) How are the mono- and multi-specific stands structured in terms of relative basal area of tree species? (ii) What are the levels of CD and CA in the stem component of tree species in the mono- and multi-specific stands? (iii) Which vegetation characteristics strongly account for the variations in CD and CA in the tree species in the mono- and multi-specific stands? We established 15 stands (six mono- and nine multi-specific stands), each having 4 ha area in the forest region. Total number of species across the stands was 46 belonging to 25 families. Average tree density ha(-1) and stem basal area (BA, m(2) ha(-1)), across the stands were 522 and 11.1, respectively. Margalef s index of species richness (SR), Whittaker's index of species evenness (Ew) and Shannon-Wiener index (H') were greater at multi-specific stands compared to mono-specific stands. Average wood specific gravity (WSG) across species for the mono-specific (Teak) was greatest compared to the other categories. Across the mono- and multi-specific stands, WSG among species ranged between 0.47 and 0.79 g cm(-3), with 26.2% having WSG >= 0.70 g cm(-3). Across the plots in mono- and multi-specific stands, stem density showed positive correlation with BA and aboveground stem biomass (AGB). The associations of SR with Ew and H', and Ew with H' were significantly positive. The AGB was positively associated with SR, Ew and BA. Repeated measures ANOVA indicated significant effects of year, stand and species for DBH, height and AGB. Average aboveground CD and CA across the stands were 136 t-C ha(-1) and 53 t-C ha(-1) yr(-1), respectively. Results of step-wise multiple regression indicated that across the stands, CD was influenced by BA and H', and CA was affected by SR and BA. Principal component analysis exhibited strong association of CA and CD with multi-specific stands compared to mono-specific stands. Teak and Sal trees showed maximum CA per unit BA at multi-specific stand compared to mono-specific stand. These findings can be used by the forest managers to increase the carbon density and accumulation in Teak and Sal forests of India. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Chaturvedi, R. K.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India								37							Forestry	WOS:000350517300002		
J	Faiz, A. H.; F-I-Abbas; Ali, Z.; Zahra, L.								COMMUNITY STRUCTURE AND DIVERSITY OF BUTTERFLIES IN TOLIPIR NATIONAL PARK, AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR (AJK) PAKISTAN								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL AND PLANT SCIENCES				25	3			355	358					2015	2015	Present study on Lepidopteran diversity was conducted over some 52 km(2) of Tolipir National Park during summer, 2014 using line transects sampling method. A total of 20 butterfly species belonging to two Nymphalidae and Pieridae families were recorded. The Various diversity indices, i. e. Simpson Index (0.09), Shannon Winner Index (3.05), Berger-Parker Dominance Index (0.06), Margalef's Index (3.27), Menhinick Index (0.89), Buzas and Gibson's Index (0.96) were also calculated. The Lepidoptera diversity decreased along elevation gradient (1,400 - 2,600 m asl). This study will help in understanding the total energy flow in the ecosystem and in ensuring the soil fertility of Tolipir National Park.		[Faiz, A. H.; F-I-Abbas] Bio Resource Res Ctr, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Ali, Z.] Univ Punjab, Environm Hlth & Wildlife, Dept Zool, Lahore, Pakistan; [Zahra, L.] Women Univ Azad Jammu & Kashmir Bagh, Azad, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Faiz, A. H.] Bio Resource Res Ctr, 34 Bazar Rd,G-6-4, Islamabad, Pakistan								2							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Biology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000367732200010		
J	Wangchuk, Kesang; Darabant, Andras; Rai, Prem Bahadur; Wurzinger, Maria; Zollitsch, Werner; Gratzer, Georg								Species richness, diversity and density of understory vegetation along disturbance gradients in the Himalayan conifer forest								JOURNAL OF MOUNTAIN SCIENCE				11	5			1182	1191		10.1007/s11629-013-2942-8			SEP 2014	2014	We investigated whether species richness, diversity and density of understory herbaceous plants differed along logging (gap) and grazing (primarily by cattle) disturbance gradients, and sought to identify drivers of richness, diversity and density of understory vegetation of logged sites. A factorial experiment was conducted in the mixed conifer forest of Gidakom in Western Bhutan. Levels of the logging treatment included small (0.15-0.24 ha), medium (0.25-0.35 ha) and large (0.36-1.31 ha) gaps. The grazing treatment included grazed (primarily by cattle) and ungrazed (where herbivores were excluded by a fence) plots nested within each gap. Data were collected from 12 gaps (4 replicates at each level of logging) using the point intercept method. Shannon Weaver Diversity and Margalef's indices were used to estimate species diversity and describe species richness, respectively. Soil samples were analyzed for pH and nutrients. The interaction effect of logging and grazing was significant (pa parts per thousand currency sign0.001) only on species diversity. Relative to ungrazed areas, species diversity was significantly higher (0.01a parts per thousand currency signpa parts per thousand currency sign0.05) in medium grazed gaps. Under grazed conditions, soil P was negatively correlated with gap size and species diversity. While species diversity was positively correlated (0.01a parts per thousand currency signpa parts per thousand currency sign0.05) with soil N in grazed plots species richness was positively correlated (0.001a parts per thousand currency signpa parts per thousand currency sign0.01) with soil N in ungrazed plots. Relative density of Yushania microphylla and Carex nubigena were higher under ungrazed conditions. Our study suggests that the combined effect of cattle grazing and logging results in higher species diversity of understory vegetation in medium and grazed gaps in mixed conifer forests of Bhutan,whereas increase or decrease in relative density of major species is determined primarily by the independent effects of grazing and logging. From management perspective, forest managers must refrain from creating large gaps to avoid loss of nutrients (mainly P and N), which may eventually affect tree regeneration. Managers intending to maintain understory vegetation diversity must consider the combined effects of grazing and logging, ensuring low to moderate grazing pressure.		[Wangchuk, Kesang; Wurzinger, Maria; Zollitsch, Werner] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci, Dept Sustainable Agr Syst, Div Livestock Sci, A-1180 Vienna, Austria; [Wangchuk, Kesang; Darabant, Andras; Rai, Prem Bahadur] Renewable Nat Resources Res & Dev Ctr, Bumthang 32001, Bhutan; [Darabant, Andras; Gratzer, Georg] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci, Dept Forest & Soil Sci, Inst Forestry Ecol, A-1190 Vienna, Austria; [Wangchuk, Kesang] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci, Dept Sustainable Agr Syst, Div Livestock Sci, Gregor Mendel Str 33A, A-1180 Vienna, Austria								5							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000342223500008		
J	Ge, Bao-Ming; Zhang, Dai-Zhen; Cui, Jun; Zhang, Hua-Bin; Zhou, Chun-Lin; Tang, Bo-Ping								Biodiversity Variations of Soil Macrofauna Communities in Forests in a Reclaimed Coast with Different Diked History								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				46	4			1053	1059					AUG 2014	2014	A long history of reclamation has affected the coast of east China. This factor has been recognized as the most important cause of coastal wetland loss in the country. In August 2012, We selected six forest patches, each with ages after diking ranging between 30 and 200 years, occupied by planted poplar and metasequoia in the reclaimed coast at Yancheng city. We assessed the biodiversity and the taxonomic composition variation of soil macrofauna communities among these habitats. Hymenoptera, Isopoda, Haplotaxida, and Lepidoptera groups constituted 57.13% of the total macrofauna from the six habitats. The higher biodiversity values, expressed as Margalef's richness index (R) and Shannon-Weaver diversity (H), were observed in the forests with a longer diked history, whereas lower values occurred in the forests in recently-reclaimed coasts. Ordination analysis (non-metric multi-dimensional scaling) demonstrated that soil macrofauna community parameters ate determined by the diked age of the plots. One-way ANOSIM analysis showed significant differences between soil macrofauna community characteristics of the sample forest patches (P<0.050), with the exception of poplar forest compared to metasequoia forest diked approximately 30 years ago (P=0.558). The findings indicated that the biodiversity of soil macrofauna was significantly affected by the diked history, and the soil macrofauna distribution pattern was strongly related with soil development after reclamation.		[Ge, Bao-Ming; Zhang, Dai-Zhen; Cui, Jun; Zhang, Hua-Bin; Zhou, Chun-Lin; Tang, Bo-Ping] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Key Lab Bioresources Saline Soils, Jiangsu Synthet Innovat Ctr Coastal Bioagr, Yancheng 224051, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Ge, Bao-Ming] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Key Lab Bioresources Saline Soils, Jiangsu Synthet Innovat Ctr Coastal Bioagr, Kaifang Ave 50, Yancheng 224051, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								4							Zoology	WOS:000341675800022		
J	Viana, A. P.; Fredou, Lucena F.								Ichthyofauna as bioindicator of environmental quality in an industrial district in the amazon estuary, Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				74	2			315	324		10.1590/1519-6984.16012			MAY 2014	2014	The objective of the present study was to describe the ecological status of ichthyofauna in an industrial district (Par river, Amazon estuary), through the use of different environmental descriptors. To evaluate the impacts of the industrial area and cargo terminal, three areas were considered: Zone 1 (maximum impact), Zone 2 (median impact) and Zone 3 (low impact). A total of 77 species were captured. Differences in the composition of the ichthyofauna were recorded between Zones and environments (main channel and tidal channel). The ecological indices revealed clear evidence of the impact of the industrial hub and cargo terminal on the fish communities. In Zone 1, there was a reduction in the number of feeding groups (in the main channel) and larger fish and the Shannon diversity index and Margalef's richness were also significantly lower. The multivariate analysis separated the different Zones clearly into three groups, indicating marked differences in the levels of contamination in the different parts of the study area.		[Viana, A. P.; Fredou, Lucena F.] Fed Univ Para, BR-66075110 Belem, PA, Brazil; [Viana, A. P.] Fed Univ Para, Av Bernado Sayao 1, BR-66075110 Belem, PA, Brazil								10							Biology	WOS:000340836300007		
J	Wang Dong; Wu Gao-Lin; Chang Xiao-Feng; Shi Zhi-Hua; Sun Lei; Wei Xue-Hong								Higher species diversity occurs in more fertile habitats without fertilizer disturbance in an alpine natural grassland community								JOURNAL OF MOUNTAIN SCIENCE				11	3			755	761		10.1007/s11629-013-2703-8			MAY 2014	2014	Are there some relationships among species diversity and soil chemical properties of high altitude natural grasslands? Plant community composition and chemical properties of soil samples were compared to investigate the relationship between soil and species diversity, and the richness in Tibetan alpine grasslands. Results showed that species diversity was significantly positively related to soil organic matter (SOM), total nitrogen (TN), available nitrogen (AN), total phosphorus (TP), available phosphorus (AP), and available potassium (AK) in the high alpine grasslands. Margalef's species richness index was also significantly positively related to SOM, TN, AN, and TP. Most soil chemical properties showed significantly positive correlation with species diversity and Margalef's richness index. Our results suggested that higher plant species richness index and diversity occurred in more fertile soil habitats in high altitude natural grassland community. In practice, fertilization management for the restoration of degraded grassland should be conducted with reference to the nutrient levels of natural grassland without the additional artificial fertilizer and with higher species-diversity and richness index.		[Wang Dong; Wu Gao-Lin; Chang Xiao-Feng; Shi Zhi-Hua] Chinese Acad Sci, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Wang Dong; Wu Gao-Lin; Chang Xiao-Feng; Shi Zhi-Hua] Minist Water Resources, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Wu Gao-Lin; Chang Xiao-Feng] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Sun Lei; Wei Xue-Hong] Tibet Agr & Anim Husb Coll, Inst Plant Sci Tech, Linzhi 860000, Peoples R China; [Wang Dong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Wu Gao-Lin] Chinese Acad Sci, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000336319100016		
J	Liu, Xingguo; Wu, Zongfan; Xu, Hao; Zhu, Hao; Wang, Xiaodong; Liu, Zhongsong								Assessment of pollution status of Dalianhu water sources in Shanghai, China and its pollution biological characteristics								ENVIRONMENTAL EARTH SCIENCES				71	10			4543	4552		10.1007/s12665-013-2846-5			MAY 2014	2014	The present study was undertaken aiming to assess the water quality state of different parts (i.e. external river, aquaculture ponds, lake area, water forests, internal river and swampland) of Dalianhu water sources in Shanghai (China), by investigating the community structure characteristics of zooplankton and benthos along with some water quality parameters (TN, TP, COD, etc.). Some diversity indices were calculated, including Shannon-Wiener index (H) for both zooplankton and benthos, Margalef's diversity index (D) for zooplankton and Goodnight modified index (G) and Biological pollution index (BPI) for benthos. The obtained results shows that in Dalianhu water sources, the Shannon-Wiener index of zooplankton (H (z)) is 0.3-1.83, the Margalef's diversity index of zooplankton (D) is 1.0-10.4. The Shannon-Wiener index of benthos (H (b)) is 0.81-1.26, the Goodnight modified index of benthos (G) is 0.30-0.88, the Biological pollution index (BPI) is 1.1. These findings determine the water quality in Dalianhu water sources which belong to the moderate pollution. By comprehensive analysis together with zooplankton, benthos indices and water physicochemical parameters, the pollution level of Dalianhu water sources is in turn water forest, inner river, aquaculture ponds, external river and lake area, showing that the pollution of the Dalianhu water sources is mainly internal. It was suggested that the further work departments should be carried out to strengthen the necessary consolidate management and ecological repair.		[Liu, Xingguo; Wu, Zongfan; Xu, Hao; Zhu, Hao; Wang, Xiaodong; Liu, Zhongsong] Minist Agr, Key Lab Fishery Equipment & Engn, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xingguo; Wu, Zongfan; Xu, Hao; Zhu, Hao; Wang, Xiaodong; Liu, Zhongsong] Chinese Acad Fisheries Sci, Fishery Machinery & Instrument Res Inst, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhongsong] Minist Agr, Key Lab Fishery Equipment & Engn, 63 Chifeng Rd, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China								10							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Water Resources	WOS:000334913500021		
J	Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.								Species Composition, Distribution, and Diversity of Woody Species in a Tropical Dry Forest of India								JOURNAL OF SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY				33	8			729	756		10.1080/10549811.2014.925402			2014	2014	We investigated the composition of tropical dry forest woody species at adult, sapling, and seedling stages, in terms of plant diversity, distribution, and importance value index (IVI), and identified the dominant and ubiquitous species in the five study sites having variable edaphic properties. Species varied markedly in the composition and IVI at different sites. The semi-evergreen species, Shorea robusta, was dominant at the wettest site at all the three growth stages; at the driest site, highly deciduous species Lannea coromandelica was the dominant adult species and Nyctanthis arbortristis the dominant sapling and seedling species. Soil moisture content (SMC) altered the distribution of about 8% of the adult species. ANOVA indicated significant site-wise differences in the Shannon-Wiener index, Whittaker's evenness, Margalef's species richness, and beta-diversity for the woody species at all the three stages. The Shannon-Wiener index, Whittaker's evenness, Margalef's species richness, and beta-diversity were greater in seedlings as compared to adult and saplings of tree species. These variations in species composition and distribution are evidently on account of different levels of SMC as well as habitat heterogeneity as indicated by beta-diversity which was independent of SMC.		[Chaturvedi, R. K.; Raghubanshi, A. S.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Chaturvedi, R. K.] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Environm & Sustainable Dev, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India								19							Forestry	WOS:000209679700001		
J	Plexida, S. G.; Sfougaris, A. I.; Papadopoulos, N. T.								THE IMPACT OF HUMAN LAND USE ON THE COMPOSITION AND RICHNESS OF GROUND AND DUNG BEETLE ASSEMBLAGES								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				12	3			661	679		10.15666/aeer/1203_661679			2014	2014	This paper presents the results of a survey on the habitat and seasonal variation in activity density and richness of ground and dung beetle assemblages in a heterogeneous landscape of central Greece. Beetles were collected using 2,646 pitfall traps across an area of 138 ha representative of the Mediterranean mountainous landscape. Sampling was performed in cereal fields, corn fields, fallow land, grassland, Robinia pseudoacacia plantations, oak forest - farmland ecotone and oak forest using pitfall traps. A total of 18,275 individuals belonging to 38 species were collected, whereas only seven species constituted the 82.64% of the overall captures. Onthophagus ovatus was the most common species in all habitats. Beetle assemblages varied markedly regarding the number of species, while higher densities were reported during June. Significant differences in beetle richness were found considering habitat preferences with the lowest species richness in corn fields. Carabidae assemblages were both most abundant and diverse in plantations, whereas Scarabaeidae assemblages were most abundant and diverse in fallow land. Among estimated diversity indices, Margalef's index generated similar results with the observed diversity, likewise non parametric estimators. Overall, the results obtained in the present study suggest that agricultural areas in mountainous heterogeneous landscape might be the important factor for conserving rich beetle diversity, whereas supplementary biotic factors should be explored.		[Plexida, S. G.; Sfougaris, A. I.] Univ Thessaly, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, Lab Ecosyst & Biodivers Management, Volos 38446, Greece; [Papadopoulos, N. T.] Univ Thessaly, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, Lab Entomol & Agr Zool, Volos 38446, Greece; [Sfougaris, A. I.] Univ Thessaly, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, Lab Ecosyst & Biodivers Management, Fytokou Str, Volos 38446, Greece								3							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000342047200006		
J	Trinh Si-Hai Truong; Cho Nguyen; Nguyen-Ngoc Lam; Jensen, K. Thomas								Seasonal and spatial distribution of mesozooplankton in a tropical estuary, Nha Phu, South Central Viet Nam								BIOLOGIA				69	1			80	91		10.2478/s11756-013-0289-9			JAN 2014	2014	This study provides a description of mesozooplankton (holo- and meroplankton) abundance, biomass and diversity patterns inside and outside a tropical estuary (Nha Phu Estuary, Khanh Hoa, Viet Nam). In total 185 zooplankton species have been recorded during the study period (2009-2010), copepods contribute with the largest share of species (more than 100), Tunicata with 20, Cnidaria with 17 and Chaetognatha with 9 species. At the most species rich site the number of zooplankton species varies between 55 and 123. The number of species and the annual variation in numbers declines towards the head of the estuary (14-37 species). In contrast, the highest numbers of individuals occur in the inner part of NPE. Calanoids that are the most abundant group of the copepods occur in densities up to 28.2 ind. L-1 (Aug. 9). At 'Outer NPE' and 'Outside NPE' the maximum density of calanoids is 5.8 and 10.7 ind. L-1, respectively. The declining diversity of zooplankton towards the head of the estuary is also supported by various indices (Shannon's index, Margalef's index). A cluster analysis on similarity of species supports a clustering of the inner NPE sites vs the other sites. There is a general separation between the dominant copepod species in the inner (Bestiola sp., Acartia pacifica, Pseudodiaptomus incisus) and outer (Paracalanus gracilis, Acrocalanus gibber, Subeucalanus subcrassus, Oithona rigida, Corycaeus andrewsi, Oithona plumifera) part of the estuary though a few species are common in both areas (Paracalanus crassirostris and Euterpina acutifrons). The zooplankton community at the inner NPE is subjected to more variable hydrographic conditions (salinity in particular) than the communities at the other sites where more stable conditions prevail. A short residence time in the inner part of the estuary due to the tide is supposed to impede a strong horizontal structuring of the zooplankton community.		[Trinh Si-Hai Truong; Cho Nguyen; Nguyen-Ngoc Lam] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Oceanog, Nha Trang, Vietnam; [Jensen, K. Thomas] Univ Aarhus, Dept Biosci, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark; [Nguyen-Ngoc Lam] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Oceanog, Cau Da 01, Nha Trang, Vietnam								9							Biology	WOS:000327081400010		
J	Zakaria, M.; Rajpar, M. N.								Density and Diversity of Water Birds and Terrestrial Birds in Man-made Marsh, Malaysia								SAINS MALAYSIANA				42	10			1483	1492					OCT 2013	2013	Many bird species are highly dependent on natural marsh habitat. Unfortunately this habitat is rapidly converted to other land uses. Therefore artificial or man-made marsh habitat may become an important alternative habitat for marsh dependent bird species. The main objective of this study was to determine the density and diversity of water and terrestrial birds at man-made marsh habitat at Putrajaya using distance sampling point count technique. A total of 20010 bird individuals of 102 species representing 31.05% water birds and 68.95% terrestrial birds were detected from March 2009 to June 2010. Density analysis showed that bird density is 0.64 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and range from 0.60 -0.68 birds ha(-1) at 95.0% confidence interval. It was found that terrestrial birds had a higher density 0.74 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) than water birds 0.54 + 0.09 birds ha(-1). For water bird species, the highest density was Black-crowned Nightheron; 2.92 + 1.80 birds ha(-1) followed by Purple Heron; 1.55 + 0.93 birds ha(-1) and Grey Heron; 1.05 + 0.13 birds ha(-1). The lowest density was recorded in Pintail Snipe; 0.08 + 0.03 birds ha(-1), Chinese Egret; 0.08 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and Great Egret; 0.07 + 0.08 birds ha(-1), respectively. In terrestrial birds, the highest bird density was observed in Rock Pigeon 3.91 + 0.97 birds ha(-1), followed by Eurasian Tree Sparrow; 3.72 + 1.03 birds ha(-1), House Crow; 3.69 + 0.33 birds ha(-1) and Philippine Glossy Starling; 3.38 + 0.53 birds ha(-1). The lowest bird density was recorded in Brown-capped Woodpecker; 0.07 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and Lesser Coucal; 0.09 + 0.03 birds ha(-1). The result also shows that terrestrial birds had higher species diversity i.e. Shannon-Wiener index (N1 = 3.10), species richness i.e. Margalef's index (R1= 8.23) and species evenness i. e. Pielou's J index (E = 0.71) as compared with water birds (N1 = 2.04; R1= 8.23 and E = 0.65). This study indicates that man-made marsh is a suitable habitat for diverse avian species and thus should be protected in order to enhance the population of avian species.		[Zakaria, M.; Rajpar, M. N.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia; [Zakaria, M.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000324689100017		
J	Oduola, Adedayo O.; Olojede, Judith B.; Oyewole, Isaac O.; Otubanjo, Olubunmi A.; Awolola, Taiwo S.								Abundance and diversity of <i>Anopheles</i> species (Diptera: Culicidae) associated with malaria transmission in human dwellings in rural and urban communities in Oyo State, Southwestern Nigeria								PARASITOLOGY RESEARCH				112	10			3433	3439		10.1007/s00436-013-3522-0			OCT 2013	2013	Mosquito samples were collected from rural and urban communities in three selected major towns in Southwestern Nigeria to determine the impact of urbanization on the diversity and abundance of Anopheles species associated with malaria transmission in human habitations. A total of ten Anopheles species were identified in the rural communities, while eight Anopheles species were identified in the urban communities. Out of the ten Anopheles species identified, only four species, Anopheles gambiae (Giles), Anopheles funestus (Giles), Anopheles moucheti (Evans), and Anopheles nili (Theobald), were established to be vectors of malaria occurring in greater than 50 % of the rural communities. Only A. gambiae occurred in all the urban communities, while the other three major vectors occurred in not more than 20 % of the urban communities. Margalef's and Shannon-Wiener indices showed that diversity and species richness were higher in the rural compared to the urban. Comprehensive information on malaria vector abundance and diversity in rapidly changing communities is an important tool in planning and implementing successful vector control programs.		[Oduola, Adedayo O.] Univ Ilorin, Dept Zool, Ilorin, Nigeria; [Oduola, Adedayo O.; Olojede, Judith B.; Awolola, Taiwo S.] Nigerian Inst Med Res, Mol Entomol & Vector Control Lab, Publ Hlth Div, Lagos, Nigeria; [Otubanjo, Olubunmi A.] Univ Lagos, Dept Zool, Lagos, Nigeria; [Oyewole, Isaac O.] Babcock Univ, Dept Biosci & Biotechnol, Ilishan Remo, Ogun State, Nigeria; [Oduola, Adedayo O.] Univ Ilorin, Dept Zool, Ilorin, Nigeria								10							Parasitology	WOS:000324326500006		
J	Bandeira, Benjamin; Jamet, Jean-Louis; Jamet, Dominique; Ginoux, Jean-Marc								Mathematical convergences of biodiversity indices								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				29				522	528		10.1016/j.ecolind.2013.01.028			JUN 2013	2013	Various indices are used in the scientific literature to describe biodiversity changes. Nevertheless, the appropriateness of an index rather than another to transcribe trends in biodiversity of plankton communities is not clearly established. So, starting from the definitions of the diversity indices of Simpson, Gleason-Margalef, Menhinick, Brillouin, Shannon, Patten, Pielou and Hurlbert, the aim of this work is to state, under the assumption that the total number of individual is great, a mathematical convergence between the indices of Brillouin, Shannon, Simpson's reciprocal, Hurlbert on the one hand and between the indices of Pielou and Patten on the other hand. More particularly, it will be also established that these last two indices are complementary provided that the total number of individual is greater than the number of species. Gleason-Margalef's and Menhinick's indices will be considered as independents. Thus, such a convergence will lead to propose a classification of these indices into three great groups reducing their number from eight to four. This theoretical result will be then applied on phytoplankton and zooplankton communities of two neighbouring bays differently affected by anthropogenic inputs in NW Mediterranean Sea (Toulon area, France) throughout three consecutive annual cycles. A strong statistical correlation between the indices belonging to the same group seems to confirm the validity of our classification. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Bandeira, Benjamin; Jamet, Jean-Louis; Jamet, Dominique; Ginoux, Jean-Marc] Univ Sud Toulon Var, Equipe Ecol & Biol Milieux Aquat EBMA, Toulon, France; [Ginoux, Jean-Marc] EA 3819, Lab PROTEE, BP 20132, F-83957 La Garde, France								36							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000316580700050		
J	Kusari, Parijat; Kusari, Souvik; Spiteller, Michael; Kayser, Oliver								Endophytic fungi harbored in <i>Cannabis sativa</i> L.: diversity and potential as biocontrol agents against host plant-specific phytopathogens								FUNGAL DIVERSITY				60	1			137	151		10.1007/s13225-012-0216-3			MAY 2013	2013	The objective of the present work was isolation, phylogenetic characterization, and assessment of biocontrol potential of endophytic fungi harbored in various tissues (leaves, twigs, and apical and lateral buds) of the medicinal plant, Cannabis sativa L. A total of 30 different fungal endophytes were isolated from all the plant tissues which were authenticated by molecular identification based on rDNA ITS sequence analysis (ITS1, 5.8S and ITS2 regions). The Menhinick's index revealed that the buds were immensely rich in fungal species, and Camargo's index showed the highest tissue-specific fungal dominance for the twigs. The most dominant species was Penicillium copticola that could be isolated from the twigs, leaves, and apical and lateral buds. A detailed calculation of Fisher's log series index, Shannon diversity index, Simpson's index, Simpson's diversity index, and Margalef's richness revealed moderate overall biodiversity of C. sativa endophytes distributed among its tissues. The fungal endophytes were challenged by two host phytopathogens, Botrytis cinerea and Trichothecium roseum, devising a dual culture antagonistic assay on five different media. We observed 11 distinct types of pathogen inhibition encompassing a variable degree of antagonism (%) on changing the media. This revealed the potential chemodiversity of the isolated fungal endophytes not only as promising resources of biocontrol agents against the known and emerging phytopathogens of Cannabis plants, but also as sustainable resources of biologically active and defensive secondary metabolites.		[Kusari, Parijat; Kayser, Oliver] TU Dortmund, Dept Biochem & Chem Engn, Chair Tech Biochem, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany; [Kusari, Souvik; Spiteller, Michael] TU Dortmund, Inst Environm Res INFU, Fac Chem, Chair Environm Chem & Analyt Chem, D-44221 Dortmund, Germany; [Kayser, Oliver] TU Dortmund, Dept Biochem & Chem Engn, Chair Tech Biochem, Emil Figge Str 66, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany								104							Mycology	WOS:000320112900012		
J	Gupta, Susmita; Narzary, Rupali								Aquatic insect community of lake, Phulbari <i>anua</i> in Cachar, Assam								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				34	3			591	597					MAY 2013	2013	An investigation on the water quality and aquatic insect community of an oxbow lake (Phulbari anua) of south Assam, North-East India was carried out during February to April, 2010. Aquatic insect community of the oxbow lake was represented by 9 species belonging to 9 families and 4 orders during the study period. Order Ephemeroptera and Hemiptera were found to be dominant. Record of 5 species and 5 families from the order Hemiptera showed that this is the largest order in terms of aquatic insect diversity of the lake. Computation of dominance status of different species of aquatic insects of the lake based on Engelmann's Scale revealed that Anisops lundbladiana and Cloeon sp. were eudominant in the system. The Shannon- Weiner's Diversity Index (H') and Shannon evenness values (J') were found to range from 0.3-0.69 and 0.53-0.97, respectively indicating perturbation of the system. Again in terms of physico-chemical properties of water the lake is in a satisfactory condition where all the parameters are well within the range of IS 10500. The DO values were found to range from 6.8 to 14.8 mgl(-1). Free CO2 fluctuated from 1 to 4.98 mgl(-1) and nitrate in water ranged from 0.4 to 2.1 mgl(-1). Margalef's water quality index values of most of the samplings also indicated clean water condition of the lake. Correlation coefficient analyses of the environmental variables, aquatic insect diversity and density of the lake revealed that aquatic insect diversity of the lake is mainly governed by dissolved oxygen, nitrate, and free carbon dioxide.		[Gupta, Susmita; Narzary, Rupali] Assam Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Silchar 788011, India; [Gupta, Susmita] Assam Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Silchar 788011, India								6							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000318838800014		
J	Kazemi, F.; Beecham, S.								Sampling Patterns and Edge Effects in a Biodiversity Study of Urban Linear Streetscapes								Acta Horticulturae				999				271	276		10.17660/ActaHortic.2013.999.38			2013	2013	In biodiversity monitoring programs, the selection of an unbiased sampling pattern has remained a significant challenge. This has been highlighted in systematic samplings where repeated habitat patterns may constantly occur or where over- or under-sampling of specific habitat areas may bias sampling efforts. A pilot study was designed to determine the best sampling pattern for a later full biodiversity study between bioretention swales, as a linear type of stormwater management linear system, and equivalent conventional green spaces in urban streetscapes in the Australian city of Melbourne. The sites were pitfall trapped and two spatial sampling patterns were compared to examine edge effects and the effects of regularly repeated habitat areas on invertebrate diversity in these landscapes. The number of species, Margalef's species richness (d) and the Shannon diversity index (H') showed non-significant differences between the two sampling patterns in any of the two landscape types of bioretention swales and conventional green spaces and in combining the landscape types. These results implied that it was experimentally valid to select any of the sampling patterns. The outcomes of this study may inform future sampling design in linear small- scale streetscapes and may support the use of pilot studies of different sampling patterns prior to finalising a sampling design.		[Kazemi, F.; Beecham, S.] Univ S Australia, Sch Nat & Built Environm, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia; [Kazemi, F.] Univ S Australia, Sch Nat & Built Environm, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia				3rd International Conference on Landscape and Urban Horticulture	JUN 29-JUL 03, 2011	Int Soc Hort Sci	Nanjing, PEOPLES R CHINA	0							Environmental Sciences; Horticulture	WOS:000333253900037		
J	Murugesan, P.; Silambarasan, A.; Purusothaman, S.; Muthuvelu, S.; Anatharaj, T.								Diversity of invertebrate trawl bycatch off Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar, south-east coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES				60	1			41	49					JAN-MAR 2013	2013	Invertebrate diversity along the south-east coast of India is rich and varied. Though many studies with respect to finfish bycatch resources have been carried out during yesteryears, only scanty information is available on invertebrate bycatch from tropical waters. The importance of invertebrates caught in the trawl bycatch has been recognised only recently by the scientific community, as the utility of invertebrate bycatch is manifold. The present study was undertaken to investigate and generate information on the diversity and species richness of invertebrates landed as trawl bycatch in Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar along the south-east coast of India. The study was undertaken in the inshore waters (5-35 m depth) of Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar during Feb 2010 - Jan 2011. Altogether 66 species of invertebrates in Cuddalore, 75 in Parangipettai and 76 in Pazhayar were recorded during the study. The percentage composition revealed that in Cuddalore and Parangipettai, brachyuran crabs were the dominant group (37% and 46% respectively) followed by cephalopods (35% and 31% respectively), while in Pazhayar, gastropods dominanted (29%) followed by shrimps (24%) and other invertebrates were meagre. Diversity indices estimated showed variation between the regions. Shannon-Weiner diversity index ranged from 2.035 to 4.776; Margalef's richness index from 2.306 to 6.782; Pielou's evenness index varied from 0.488 to 0.957; taxonomic diversity varied from 45.08 to 83.53 and total phylogenetic diversity ranged from 733.33 to 1716.8.		[Murugesan, P.; Silambarasan, A.; Purusothaman, S.; Muthuvelu, S.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Anatharaj, T.] AVVM Sri Pushpam Coll Autonomous, Postgrad & Res Dept Zool, Thanjavur 613503, Tamil Nadu, India; [Murugesan, P.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								5							Fisheries	WOS:000319849000007		
J	Li Yingyong; Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu								The Natural Restoration Capability of Vegetation in Different Site Types along the Expressway 25, Lu-Su Section, China								Applied Mechanics and Materials				253-255				1075	+		10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.253-255.1075			2013	2013	The natural restoration capability of vegetation along the expressway is of vital importance for the slope revegetation and maintenance. The Margalef's richness indexes (DMA), Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (Hp), Pielou's evenness (Jsw), Simpson Index (C), Importance Value Index (IVtr), Vegetation coverage and soil seed bank were used to assess the vegetation restoration capability of the expressway 25, Lu-Su section in China. Seventy-four quadrats ranged from 1 m X 1 m to 20 m X 20 m were studied and the analytical results indicated that Digitaria sanguinalis, Setariaviridis and Gramineae are the dominant species in the expressway slopes. Texture is the most important factor influencing the a diversity and vegetation coverage. Cinnamon soil is more suitable for the restoration compared with slopes the other kind of texture. The land use type and alien species invasion along the expressway are also vital important for the natural restoration. The soil seed bank in filling slope is more abundant than that of excavation slope. The natural restoration of vegetation along the expressway varies according to the site types and land use and most of the slopes have strong recovery ability.		[Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan, Shandong 250002, Peoples R China; [Zhao Fangying] Beijing Forestry Univ, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu] Beijing Fenglinyuan Ecol & Landscape Designing &, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan, Shandong 250002, Peoples R China				2nd International Conference on Civil Engineering and Transportation (ICCET 2012)	OCT 27-28, 2012	Liaoning Tech Univ; Hong Kong Ind Technol Res Ctr	Guilin, PEOPLES R CHINA	1							Engineering, Civil	WOS:000319231600210		
J	Keeley, Nigel B.; Forrest, Barrie M.; Crawford, Christine; Macleod, Catriona K.								Exploiting salmon farm benthic enrichment gradients to evaluate the regional performance of biotic indices and environmental indicators								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				23				453	466		10.1016/j.ecolind.2012.04.028			DEC 2012	2012	This study evaluates five benthic indicators (total abundance, number of taxa, redox potential, total free sulfides, total organic matter) and ten biotic indices (Margalef's d. Peilou's J', Shannon H', AMBI, M-AMBI, MEDOCC, BENTIX, BOPA, ITI, BQI), to identify those that best define organic enrichment gradients under different flow regimes. Performance was measured against Enrichment Stage (ES), a continuous variable characterising the full range of sediment conditions (natural to azoic). None of the 15 metrics were able to consistently discriminate over the full enrichment gradient for both flow environments. The most versatile indices were BQI > M-AMBI > AMBI > Log(N) > BENTIX. Of these, M-AMBI best catered for different flow environments, while the BQI was the most effective under highly enriched conditions. Under strong enrichment, i.e. when macrofauna abundance is in decline, changes in redox, sulfides, number of taxa and abundance were reasonably clear. However, the more complex biotic indices were relatively insensitive at this level, highlighting a limited applicability beyond the 'peak of opportunists' (PO). Conversely, in high flow regimes, some of the biological indicators were relatively sensitive to low-to-moderate levels of enrichment that were not well discerned by the physico-chemical variables. A useful subset of variables for assessing enrichment status is recommended, comprising two of the best performing biotic indices that are based on alternative/independent classification schemes (i.e. EG's and ES50(0.05)), total abundance, to aid in discerning PO, and a geochemical variable (redox or S2-). Inconsistencies between metrics were found to be more significant than the variability surrounding the predictive capacity of individual indicators, and as a result there is a risk of ES misclassification where only a single index is used. Whilst there is a recognised need to use combinations of indicators, this study also stresses the importance of focusing on a few regionally validated measures and down-weighting the importance placed on any that are not. Additionally, although using a combination of different indicators may produce a 'safe' average result, it may be inefficient, and the averaging effect has the potential to mask extreme conditions. Hence, there remains a need for expert judgement to select and appropriately weight indicator variables, to identify any erroneous results, and to reliably assess ecological quality status. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Keeley, Nigel B.; Forrest, Barrie M.] Cawthron Inst, Nelson 7010, New Zealand; [Keeley, Nigel B.; Crawford, Christine; Macleod, Catriona K.] Univ Tasmania, IMAS, Hobart, Tas, Australia; [Keeley, Nigel B.] Cawthron Inst, Coastal & Freshwater Grp, Nelson 7071, New Zealand								62							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000307130300048		
J	Bolland, J. D.; Nunn, A. D.; Lucas, M. C.; Cowx, I. G.								THE IMPORTANCE OF VARIABLE LATERAL CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN ARTIFICIAL FLOODPLAIN WATERBODIES AND RIVER CHANNELS								RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS				28	8			1189	1199		10.1002/rra.1498			OCT 2012	2012	The rehabilitation of lowland rivers subjected to channelization and artificial levee construction should attempt to improve habitat heterogeneity and diversity of floodplain hydrological connectivity. However, rehabilitation efforts rarely consider the importance of variable lateral hydrological connectivity between floodplain waterbodies and main river channels (ranging from those permanently connected to those temporarily connected during river level rises), instead focusing on increasing individual floodplain waterbody connectivity. This study investigated the young-of-the-year (YoY) fish communities in 10 artificial floodplain waterbodies of variable hydrological connectivity with the river Trent, England, between May and November 2006, inclusive. Floodplain waterbody connectivity to the main river was positively correlated with the number of species captured (alpha diversity), ShannonWiener diversity, Margalef's species richness index and the relative abundance of rheophilic species and negatively correlated with species turnover (beta diversity). YoY fish communities in poorly connected water bodies were most dissimilar to riverine communities. The results demonstrate the importance of variable lateral connectivity between artificial floodplain waterbodies and main river channels when rehabilitating lowland river fish communities. Copyright (c) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		[Bolland, J. D.; Nunn, A. D.; Cowx, I. G.] Univ Hull, Int Fisheries Inst, Kingston Upon Hull HU6 7RX, N Humberside, England; [Bolland, J. D.; Lucas, M. C.] Univ Durham, Sch Biol & Biomed Sci, Durham, England; [Bolland, J. D.] Univ Hull, Int Fisheries Inst, Cottingham Rd, Kingston Upon Hull HU6 7RX, N Humberside, England								29							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000309595700011		
J	Ge, Bao-Ming; Bao, Yi-Xin; Cheng, Hong-Yi; Zhang, Dai-Zhen; Hu, Zhi-Yuan								INFLUENCE OF <i>Spartina alterniflora</i> INVASION STAGES ON MACROBENTHIC COMMUNITIES ON A TIDAL FLAT IN WENZHOU BAY, CHINA								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF OCEANOGRAPHY				60	3			441	448		10.1590/S1679-87592012000300014			JUL-SEP 2012	2012	Many coastal habitats in eastern China are being substantially altered by the invasion of Spartina alterniflora. The species richness, density, Margalef's diversity index (R) and Shannon's diversity index (H') of macrobenthic communities on a tidal flat in Wenzhou Bay, China, were analyzed with the factors of invasion stage and season, in 2007. A significant effect of invasion stage, season, and the interaction between them on communities was detected. The macrobenthic community was more complex in the patch of initial S. alterniflora invasion than in the patches of some other invasion stages. Macrobenthic communities were classified by cluster and ordination in accordance with the habitat character of the S. alterniflora invasion stage. Our research demonstrated that the S. alterniflora invasion stage affected the macrobenthic communities significantly. The results indicated that biodiversity increased in the initial stage of invasion (invasion age 1-2 years) and then decreased in the stage of invasion underway (invasion age 3-4 years) and in the stage of invasion completed (invasion age 5-6 years); this phenomenon was related to the change in the S. alterniflora canopy which accompanied the invasion stages.		[Bao, Yi-Xin; Cheng, Hong-Yi; Hu, Zhi-Yuan] Zhejiang Normal Univ, Inst Ecol, Jinhua 321004, Peoples R China; [Ge, Bao-Ming; Zhang, Dai-Zhen] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Coastal Wetland Bioresources, Yancheng 224051, Peoples R China; [Bao, Yi-Xin] Zhejiang Normal Univ, Inst Ecol, Yingbin Dadao 688, Jinhua 321004, Peoples R China								10							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000310536600014		
J	Uysal, Z.; Shmeleva, A. A.								SPECIES COMPOSITION, ABUNDANCE AND BIOMASS OF COPEPODA IN PLANKTON OF THE NORTHERN LEVANTINE BASIN (EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN)								CRUSTACEANA				85	8			909	935		10.1163/156854012X650179			JUL 2012	2012	Changes in species composition, abundance and biomass of copepods were monitored weekly over the year 1998 in shelf waters of the northern Levantine Basin. A total of 192 copepod species belonging to 61 genera were identified during the course of this study. Thirty-six species are reported for the first time from the region, including three new species. Copepod abundance ranged from 215 individuals m(-3) in early March to 2220 individuals m(-3) in late March, whereas the biomass ranged from 4 mg m(-3) in mid-January to 22 mg m(-3) in mid-February. The copepod fauna was found to be most species-rich on 4 November (Margalef's Index d = 7.4) and least on 10 March (d = 3.3). The index was found low during spring and autumn with lowest levels obtained during the stratification period from September to October. The diversity was found to be highest on 18 February (Shannon-Wiener Index H' = 2.9) and lowest on 31 March (H' = 1.6). Higher index values were characteristic of the winter period. A proportional representation of the species among their populations was well established during February whereas the best situation was met on 3 March and the most unbalanced situation at the end of March. Multivariate analyses have shown the formation of distinct seasonal communities of copepod species throughout the year. The observed seasonality in community structure is suggested to be a result of wide range changes in temperature throughout the year. The dominant species observed during late winter and spring were Oithona nana, Oithona sp., Oncaea media, Oncaea sp., Calocalanus elegans, Euterpina acutifrons and Oncaea zernovi, respectively. Calocalanus sp., C. elegans, Triconia dentipes, Oncaea sp., Oithona nana, Clausocalanus furcatus, and Temora stylifera were dominant during summer, whereas Oncaea sp., Calocalanus sp., Oithona nana, Clausocalanus paululus, C. furcatus, Parvocalanus sp., and Calocalanus elegans dominated the autumn and early winter populations. Sharing similar species with the Indo-Pacific region gives the copepod fauna of the Levantine Basin, at least in part, a subtropical affinity.		[Uysal, Z.] Middle E Tech Univ, Inst Marine Sci, TR-33731 Erdemli, Mersin, Turkey; [Shmeleva, A. A.] Natl Acad Sci Ukraine, Inst Biol So Seas, UA-335011 Sevastopol, Ukraine; [Uysal, Z.] Middle E Tech Univ, Inst Marine Sci, POB 28, TR-33731 Erdemli, Mersin, Turkey								11							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000307321100002		
J	Rajpar, Muhammad Nawaz; Zakaria, Mohamed								Avian community parameters of a freshwater wetland ecosystem in Peninsular Malaysia								ASIA LIFE SCIENCES				21	2			409	428					JUL-DEC 2012	2012	Avian community parameters, such as species relative abundance, species diversity and feeding guild of three major groups of birds - migratory birds, resident birds and resident-migratory birds, were determined using mist-netting method at Paya Indah Wetland Reserve, Peninsular, Malaysia from November 2007 to December 2008. A total of 65 species and 33 families comprising 13 migratory species, 41 resident species and 11 resident-migratory bird species were captured by mist-nets. Brown Shrike - Lanius cristatus and Richard's Pipit - Anthus richardi (26.50% of each) were the most abundant migratory species, while Yellow-vented Bulbul-Pycnonotus goiavier (30.99%) was the most dominant resident species and Yellow Bittern - Ixobrychus sinensis (35.60%) was the most abundant resident-migratory species. The highest species diversity (Shannon's N-1 = 12.92) and species richness (Margalef's R-1 = 5.63) were obtained for resident birds and the lowest species diversity (N-1 = 6.06) and species richness (R-1 = 2.03) were obtained for resident-migratory birds. The highest species evenness for migratory birds was 0.75 McIntosh's evenness index and the lowest species evenness for resident-migratory birds was 0.59. Insectivore (80.34%) was the most dominant guild for migratory birds followed by Frugivore/Insectivore (39.46%) for resident birds and Carnivore/Piscivore/Insectivore (53.28%) for resident-migratory birds. In contrast, Carnivore (0.41%) was the rarest guild of resident birds. The Frugivore/Insectivore, Granivore/Insectivore, Granivore, Nectarivore/Insectivore and Carnivore/Insectivore guilds were absent in migratory birds and Granivore/Insectivore, Granivore, Nectarivore/Insectivore, Carnivore/ Insectivore and Carnivore were absent in resident and migratory birds. This study showed that Paya Indah Wetland Reserve is highly attractive habitat for migratory, resident and resident-migratory birds.		[Zakaria, Mohamed] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor Darul, Malaysia; [Rajpar, Muhammad Nawaz] Pakistan Forest Inst, Forest Educ Div, Peshawar, Pakistan; [Zakaria, Mohamed] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor Darul, Malaysia								4							Biology	WOS:000306379900007		
J	Shinde, S. E.; Pathan, T. S.; Sonawane, D. L.								Seasonal variations and biodiversity of zooplankton in Harsool-Savangi dam, Aurangabad, India								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				33	4			741	744					JUL 2012	2012	The present study concerns seasonal variations, correlation coefficient and biodiversity indices of zooplanktons during January - December, 2008 in the Harsool-Savangi dam, Aurangabad, India. A total of 25 genera were recorded of which 10 were Rotifers, 8 Cladocerons, 5 Copepods and 2 Ostracods. Present study revealed maximum percentage wise compositions of Rotifers at north site were 58.28%, Cladocerons at south site were 29.78%, Copepods at east site were 16.59% and Ostracods at south site were 4.20%, respectively. Minimum percentage wise compositions Rotifers at south site were 51.54%, Cladocerons at west site were 26.71%, Copepods at north site were 11.03% and Ostracods at north site were 1.36%, respectively. Margalef's index (R-1) and Menhinick index (R-2) values (3.58 and 0.87) were found to be the highest at south site and lowest at (3.16 and 0.56) north site. Simpson's index (I) values (0.43) were found to be the highest at north site and lowest (0.37) at south site. Shannon-Weiner index (H') values (1.06) were found to be the highest at south site and lowest values (0.94) at north site. Maximum species evenness was recorded at south site while minimum species evenness was recorded at north site. Maximum population density of Rotifers, Cladocerons, Copepods and Ostracods (799, 350, 163 and 18) were recorded at north site in summer and minimum (58, 35, 22 and 13) were recorded at south site in monsoon, respectively.		[Shinde, S. E.; Sonawane, D. L.] Dr BabasahebAmbedkar Marathwada Univ, Dept Zool, Aurangabad 431004, Maharashtra, India; [Pathan, T. S.] Kalikadevi Arts Commerce & Sci Coll, Dept Zool, Shirur 413249, India; [Shinde, S. E.] Dr BabasahebAmbedkar Marathwada Univ, Dept Zool, Aurangabad 431004, Maharashtra, India								3							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000305777900011		
J	Ge, Bao-Ming; Li, Zhen-Xing; Zhang, Dai-Zhen; Zhang, Hua-Bin; Liu, Zong-Tang; Zhou, Chun-Lin; Tang, Bo-Ping								Communities of soil macrofauna in green spaces of an urbanizing city at east China								REVISTA CHILENA DE HISTORIA NATURAL				85	2			219	226		10.4067/S0716-078X2012000200008			JUN 2012	2012	We evaluated the diversity of soil macrofauna communities inhabiting urban green spaces in Yancheng City, an urbanizing city located east of China. In the end of April 2011, the taxonomic richness, abundance and composition of soil macrofauna communities were assessed and compared among five types of green space (poplar forest, rapeseed farm, grassland in park, lawn and nursery garden) and three depth layers in the soil, with taxonomic resolution attained at the order level. Taxonomic richness (orders) and abundance were significantly different among green spaces. Diversity indices (Margalef's taxonomic richness R and Shannon-Weaver diversity index H') were higher in poplar forest, grassland in park and nursery garden than in rapeseed farm and lawn. Taxonomic richness (Chao 2) showed a similar trend. There were significant effects of green space type and soil layer, which showed a significant interaction affecting macrofauna composition. We recommend that urban green spaces can be used for maintaining biodiversity, not only for landscape purposes.		[Ge, Bao-Ming; Li, Zhen-Xing; Zhang, Dai-Zhen; Zhang, Hua-Bin; Liu, Zong-Tang; Zhou, Chun-Lin; Tang, Bo-Ping] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Coastal Wetland Bioresources, Yancheng 224051, Peoples R China; [Ge, Bao-Ming] Yancheng Teachers Univ, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Coastal Wetland Bioresources, Yancheng 224051, Peoples R China								6							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000307128800008		
J	Shinde, S. E.; Pathan, T. S.; Sonawane, D. L.								Seasonal variations and biodiversity of phytoplankton in Harsool-Savangi dam, Aurangabad, India								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				33	3			643	647					MAY 2012	2012	The present study concerns seasonal variations, correlation coefficient and biodiversity indices of phytoplankton during January to December, 2008 in the Harsool-Savangi dam, Aurangabad, India. A total of 35 genera were recorded out of which 15 were Chlorophyceae, 7 Bacillariophyceae, 7 Cyanophyceae and 6 Euglenophyceae. Present study revealed maximum percentage wise compositions of Chlorophyceae at north site 41.91%, Bacillariophyceae at west site 32.70%, Cyanophyceae at south site 19.50% and Euglenophyceae at west site 11.47%. Minimum percentage wise compositions Chlorophyceae at south site 37.80%, Bacillariophyceae at east site 28.15%, Cyanophyceae at west site 17.47% and Euglenophyceae at north site 10.57%. Margalef's index (R-1) and Menhinick index (R-2) values (4.12 and 0.56) were found to be highest at south site and lowest values (3.77 and 0.38) were found at north site. Simpson's index (I) values (0.30) were found to be the highest at north site and lowest values (0.29) were found at south, east, and west sites. Shannon - Weiner index (H') values (1.26) were found to be the highest at south, east, and west sites and lowest values (1.24) were found at north site. Maximum species evenness was recorded at south site; minimum at north site. Maximum population density of Chlorophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Cyanophyceae and Euglenophyceae (1923, 1173, 889 and 541 organisms l(-1)) were recorded at north site in summer and minimum (108, 195,67 and 24 organisms l(-1)) were recorded at south site in monsoon, respectively.		[Shinde, S. E.; Sonawane, D. L.] Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada Univ, Dept Zool, Aurangabad 431004, Maharashtra, India; [Pathan, T. S.] Kalikadevi Arts Commerce & Sci Coll, Dept Zool, Shirur 413249, India; [Shinde, S. E.] Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada Univ, Dept Zool, Aurangabad 431004, Maharashtra, India								3							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000303975800018		
J	Ranwala, S. M. W.; Thushari, P. G. I.								Current status and management options for invasive plants at the Mihintale Wildlife Sanctuary								JOURNAL OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION OF SRI LANKA				40	1			67	76		10.4038/jnsfsr.v40i1.4170			MAR 2012	2012	The present study describes the current spread of plant invaders and management efforts at Mihintale, Sri Lanka's first recorded Wildlife Sanctuary. Among the five land use zones identified, roadside (RS), village (VA) and reservoir associated (RA) zones were subjected to a detailed analysis of diversity and abundance of Invasive Alien Plants (TAP) using stratified random sampling plots of 20 m x 20 m (n=09). Encroachment of TAP into the forested (FO) zone was studied using three 50 m transects established from edge to interior of the forest. The above ground diversity of TAP was assessed via Margalef's, Shannon-Weiner, Shannon evenness, abundance and important value indices. Aquatic IAP were also identified. Below ground diversity of IAP was estimated by enumerating soil seed banks via seedling establishment method. A questionnaire (n=60) was used to assertain the invasion history, awareness on IAP, their interference on human activities, uses and control measures adopted by the villagers. Nearly half of the IAP reported for Sri Lanka were present in the Mihintale Sanctuary. Richness of IAP was high in RA but the abundance was high at RS zone. Lantana camara and Chromolaena odorata had the highest spread, extending even >25 m into the forests. Salvinia was the most abundant aquatic IAP. Top soil layer contained the highest number of germinable IAP seeds. The villagers were well aware of the impacts of TAP and indicated their attempts and potential in TAP management. The study revealed that spread of IAP at the Mihintale Sanctuary currently lies at a manageable level. Better awareness among villagers on "do's and dont's with IAP" would assist in opening up more opportunities for community participation in effective IAP management.		[Ranwala, S. M. W.] Univ Colombo, Fac Sci, Dept Plant Sci, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka; [Thushari, P. G. I.] Rajarata Univ Sri Lanka, Fac Sci Appl, Dept Biol, Mihintale, Sri Lanka; [Ranwala, S. M. W.] Univ Colombo, Fac Sci, Dept Plant Sci, POB 1490, Colombo 03, Sri Lanka								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000302263700007		
J	Carmassi, A. L.; Rondineli, G.; Ferreira, F. C.; Braga, F. M. S.								Composition and structure of fish assemblage from Passa Cinco stream, Corumbatai river sub-basin, SP, Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				72	1			87	96		10.1590/S1519-69842012000100011			FEB 2012	2012	The aim of this work was to determine the composition of the fish assemblage of Passa Cinco stream and verify changes in their structure on the altitudinal gradient. Six samples were performed at five different sites in Passa Cinco stream (from the headwater, at order two, to its mouth, at order six), using an electric fishery equipment and gill nets in May, July, September and November of 2005 and January and March of 2006. The indices of Shannon's diversity, Pielou's evenness and Margalef's richness were quantified separately considering the different fishery equipment (nets versus electric fishery equipment). An ANOVA was used to compare samples collected in relation to values of abundance, diversity, evenness and richness. The representativeness of the species was summarised by their average values of abundance and weight. We captured 5082 individuals distributed into 61 species. We observed a trend of increasing diversity, richness and evenness of species from site 1 to 3, with further decrease in sites 4 and 5. The values found for habitat diversity also followed this pattern. Significant differences were found for all three indices considering the electric fishery samples. For individuals caught with nets, only the richness index showed a significant difference. Characidium aff. zebra was an important species in the headwater and transition sites and Hypostomus strigaticeps in middle-lower course sites. Despite the small extension of the Passa Cinco stream, environments structurally well defined were evidenced by the species distribution and assemblage composition along the gradient.		[Carmassi, A. L.; Braga, F. M. S.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Zool, Inst Biociencias, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Rondineli, G.] UFES, Dept Prod Vegetal, Ctr Ciencias Agr, BR-29500000 Alegre, ES, Brazil; [Ferreira, F. C.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Ecol, Inst Biociencias, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Carmassi, A. L.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Zool, Inst Biociencias, Av 24A,1515 Bela Vista,CP 199, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil								1							Biology	WOS:000301954700011		
J	Li Yingyong; Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu								The Natural Restoration Capability of Vegetation in Different Site Types along the Expressway 25, Lu-Su Section, China								Advanced Materials Research				599				877	883		10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.599.877			2012	2012	The natural restoration capability of vegetation along the expressway is of vital importance for the slope revegetation and maintenance. The Margalef 's richness indexes (DMA), Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (Hp), Pielou's evenness (Jsw), Simpson Index (C), Importance Value Index (IVtr), Vegetation coverage and soil seed bank were used to assess the vegetation restoration capability of the expressway 25, Lu-Su section in China. Seventy-four quadrats ranged from 1 m X 1 m to 20 m X 20 m were studied and the analytical results indicated that Digitaria sanguinalis, Setariaviridis and Gramineae are the dominant species in the expressway slopes. Texture is the most important factor influencing the a diversity and vegetation coverage. Cinnamon soil is more suitable for the restoration compared with slopes the other kind of texture. The land use type and alien species invasion along the expressway are also vital important for the natural restoration. The soil seed bank in filling slope is more abundant than that of excavation slope. The natural restoration of vegetation along the expressway varies according to the site types and land use and most of the slopes have strong recovery ability.		[Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan 250002, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan 250002, Shandong, Peoples R China				Global Conference on Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering / 3rd International Symp on Multi-field Coupling Theory of Rock and Soil Media and its Applications	OCT 20-21, 2012	China Three Gorges Univ; Chinese Soc Rock Mech & Engn, Geoenvironmental Engn Branch; Chinese Soc Rock Mech & Engn, Ground Rock Engn Comm; Chinese Soc Mech, Fluid Mech Comm; Hubei Soc Rock Mech & Engn; Minist Educ, Key Lab Geol Hazards Three Gorges Reservoir Area; Hubei Three Gorges Reservoir Area Landslides Observat & Res Stn; SW Petr Univ; NE Petr Univ; Wuhan Polytechn Univ; Hubei Polytechn Univ; CnTech Co Ltd	China Three Gorges Univ, Yichang, PEOPLES R CHINA	0							Engineering, Environmental; Materials Science, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000318191700173		
J	Yahya, Mohd Azham; Singh, Harinder Rai			IEEE					An Assessment of the Distribution of the Freshwater Fishes of the Taman Negara Pahang, Malaysia								IEEE Symposium on Business Engineering and Industrial Applications								175	180					2012	2012	Surveys on the distribution of fish fauna in Keniam River, Taman Negara Pahang were conducted from 16th-22nd March 2011. Fish were sampled from 12 stations from 3 different zones of the river, namely, the upper reaches, middle reaches, and lower reaches. A total of 17 fish species belonging to 4 families were recorded. Analyses based on the number of individuals caught showed that 82% of total catch was represented by the Cyprinids. Mystus nemurus and Mystacoelucus marginatus were the most distributed within the Keniam River being present in the upper, middle and lower reaches of the river. Species richness (Margalef's D) for fish ranged from 2.33 to 2.96 while the Shannon-Weiner (H') Diversity index ranged from 1.80 to 2.07. The upper reaches recorded highest diversity (H'=2.07, D=2.96) as compared to the other zones of the Keniam River. Approximately 82% or 14 species of the fishes sampled were juveniles or sub adults based on the ratio of their mean standard length to their maximum attainable length.		[Yahya, Mohd Azham; Singh, Harinder Rai] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Appl Sci, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia; [Yahya, Mohd Azham] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Appl Sci, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia				IEEE Symposium on Business, Engineering and Industrial Applications (ISBEIA)	SEP 23-26, 2012	IEEE; IEEE Malaysia Sect; IEEE Indonesia Sect; IEEE Malaysia Power Elect Ind Elect Ind Applicat Joint Chapter	Bandung, INDONESIA	0							Engineering, Electrical & Electronic	WOS:000317181700035		
J	Saad, Md Nasir; Singh, Harinder Rai; Daim, Mohd Salleh; Mamat, Ismail			IEEE					Avian Communities From Differentially Disturbed Riparian Forest Along the Tembeling River, Taman Negara Pahang, Malaysia								IEEE Symposium on Business Engineering and Industrial Applications								169	174					2012	2012	This study reports on the birds species sampled within the riparian and lowland forest at five sites (3 developed areas and 2 control areas) along the Tembeling River in Taman Negara Pahang (TNP), Malaysia. Birds were sample by utilizing standard mist nets (dimensions, 2.5 m x 9 m and 3 m x 14 m). Twenty eight families comprising 92 species were recorded. The Timaliidae (18.48%, 17 taxa) and the Pycnonotidae (15.22%, 14 taxa) were the two most abundant families recorded from the study sites. The latter, however, had higher species richness. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H') (range, 3.13 - 3.75), the Margalef's index (D') (range, 6.53 - 10.77) and the Pielou Evenness index (J') (range, 0.87 - 0.91) suggest high bird diversity at TNP. The study indicates that the forest habitats of Taman Negara Pahang are important bird areas and therefore should be conserved.		[Saad, Md Nasir; Singh, Harinder Rai] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Appl Sci, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia; [Saad, Md Nasir; Singh, Harinder Rai; Daim, Mohd Salleh] Univ Teknologi MARA, Ctr Biodivers & Sustainable Dev, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia; [Daim, Mohd Salleh] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Architecture Planning & Surveying, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia; [Mamat, Ismail] Dept Wildlife & Natl Pk Peninsular Malaysia, Shah Alam, Malaysia; [Saad, Md Nasir] Univ Teknol MARA, Fac Appl Sci, Shah Alam 40450, Selangor, Malaysia				IEEE Symposium on Business, Engineering and Industrial Applications (ISBEIA)	SEP 23-26, 2012	IEEE; IEEE Malaysia Sect; IEEE Indonesia Sect; IEEE Malaysia Power Elect Ind Elect Ind Applicat Joint Chapter	Bandung, INDONESIA	0							Engineering, Electrical & Electronic	WOS:000317181700034		
J	Odume, O. N.; Muller, W. J.; Arimoro, F. O.; Palmer, C. G.								The impact of water quality deterioration on macroinvertebrate communities in the Swartkops River, South Africa: a multimetric approach								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF AQUATIC SCIENCE				37	2			191	200		10.2989/16085914.2012.670613			2012	2012	A multimetric approach, using 21 metrics representing five categories - abundance, composition, richness, diversity and biotic indices - was applied to investigate the impacts of water quality deterioration on macro invertebrate communities in the Swartkops River. Macroinvertebrates were sampled seasonally between August 2009 and July 2010 using the South African Scoring System version 5 (SASS5) protocol at one reference site upstream of Uitenhage and three downstream sites. Assessment of water quality impacts on macroinvertebrates was based on the discriminatory ability of metrics between the reference and impaired sites, and on their correlation with the physico-chemical variables. The metrics' discriminatory ability was explored using box plots, and their relationships with water chemistry variables elucidated with Pearson's correlation. Trichoptera abundance, % Chironomidae + Oligochaeta, % Ephemeroptera-Trichoptera-Odonata-Coleoptera (ETOC), % Trichoptera, Ephemeroptera-Plecoptera-Trichoptera (EPT) richness, ETOC richness, Margalef's family richness index, equitability, Shannon and Simpson diversity indices, SASS5 score and average score per taxon (ASPT) discriminated between the reference and impacted sites, and also exhibited significant correlations (p < 0.05) with water chemistry variables. Conversely, Gastropoda abundance, EPT abundance, ETOC abundance, EPT: Chironomidae ratio, % EPT, % Corixidae, % Oligochaeta + Hirudinae, Chironomidae + Oligochaeta abundance and Hemiptera + Diptera richness did not discriminate between the reference and impacted sites.		[Odume, O. N.; Muller, W. J.; Arimoro, F. O.; Palmer, C. G.] Rhodes Univ, Inst Water Res, Unilever Ctr Environm Water Qual, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa; [Odume, O. N.] Rhodes Univ, Inst Water Res, Unilever Ctr Environm Water Qual, POB 94, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa								38							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000306117900008		
J	Arimoro, F. O.; Nwadukwe, F. O.; Mordi, K. I.								The influence of habitat and environmental water quality on the structure and composition of the adult aquatic insect fauna of the Ethiope River, Delta State, Nigeria								TROPICAL ZOOLOGY				24	2			159	171					DEC 2011	2011	The abundance and taxonomic richness of the adult aquatic insect fauna were determined at two sites located 2 km apart on the Ethiope River, Delta State, Nigeria. Adults were collected by ultraviolet light traps and sweep nets on seven occasions between May and November 2010. Twenty-eight (28) different taxa were identified and 869 individuals were caught at sites 1 and 2 combined. The orders represented were Diptera, Odonata, Trichoptera, Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera in decreasing order of abundance. The distribution of these organisms varied from site 1 to 2 according to the different human activities, abiotic factors and riparian vegetation at the sites. Generally, the most dominant taxonomic order was Diptera, closely followed by Odonata, while the least dominant was Plecoptera. Margalef's species richness (d), Shannon-Weiner diversity and evenness (E) indices were significantly higher (P < 0.05) at site 1.		[Arimoro, F. O.; Nwadukwe, F. O.; Mordi, K. I.] Delta State Univ, Dept Anim & Environm Biol, Abraka, Nigeria; [Arimoro, F. O.] Delta State Univ, Dept Anim & Environm Biol, PMB 1, Abraka, Nigeria								4							Zoology	WOS:000301030800004		
J	Antonio Gomez-Anaya, Jose; Novelo-Gutierrez, Rodolfo; Campbell, William Bruce								Diversity and distribution of Odonata (Insecta) larvae along an altitudinal gradient in Coalcoman mountains, Michoacan, Mexico								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				59	4			1559	1577					DEC 2011	2011	Evaluating components of landscape diversity is essential for the implementation of efficient conservation strategies. We evaluated the diversity of Odonata larval assemblages from the Coalcoman mountains (CM), Michoacan, Mexico, and related it to local (site-level) habitat variables. Larvae were collected from shores, riffles and pools in five streams, counted and identified to species, twice per season during 2005. The Shannon Diversity Index (H'), Margalef's Richness Index (R), Simpson's Index as a dominance measure (D) and Pielou's Equitability (J) were used to describe the assemblages, and Renyi's Diversity Profiles were used to order diversity. A Bray-Curtis Similarity Index (BC) was used to evaluate beta diversity. Theoretical richness was estimated using non-parametric and parametric methods. A Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) was applied to explore the relationships of species with site-level environmental variables. A total of 12 245 larvae from 75 species, 28 genera and 8 families were recorded. Over all sites, the dominant species were Erpetogomphus elaps, Macrothemis pseudimitans and Argia pulla. The number of species per locality ranged from 18 to 36, and a high number of species (76%) occurred with relative abundances lower than 1%. A differential distribution of species and abundance in streams, time and strata was observed. Renyi's diversity profiles showed diversity was higher in spring and on shores. Most BC similarity values were smaller than 25%, indicating a high turnover rate in the CM. The high turnover rate reflects a differential distribution of the species along the altitudinal gradient, supporting the hypothesis of Mexico as a betadiverse country. According to the slope of Clench's curve, a reliable list of species was gathered. The CM larval assemblage is currently the largest reported for Mexico, and our results support previous proposals of the CM as a species-rich area for conservation. Rev. Biol. Trop. 59(4): 1559-1577. Epub 2011 December 01.		[Antonio Gomez-Anaya, Jose; Novelo-Gutierrez, Rodolfo] Inst Ecol AC, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico; [Campbell, William Bruce] Cardno ENTRIX, Sacramento, CA 95825 USA; [Antonio Gomez-Anaya, Jose] Inst Ecol AC, Carretera Antigua Coatepec 351, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico								13							Biology	WOS:000298768500011		
J	Ogleni, Nurtac; Topal, Bayram								Water Quality Assessment of the Mudurnu River, Turkey, Using Biotic Indices								WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT				25	10			2487	2508		10.1007/s11269-011-9822-1			AUG 2011	2011	In this study, the effect of domestic and industrial pollutants on the water quality of Mudurnu River was searched. Water and benthic macroinvertebrate samples were taken from five stations selected on Mudurnu River during 12 months (2006-2007). COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand), TKN (Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen), NO(3)(-)-N (Nitrate-Nitrogen), PO(4)(-3)-P (Phosphate-Phosphorous), NH(4)(+)-N (Ammonium-Nitrogen), Phenol data and scores of BMWP (Biological Monitoring Working Party) score system, ASPT (Average Score per Taxon), TBI (Trent Biotic Index), BBI (Belgian Biotic Index), Margalef's index (R), Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H), Simpson's diversity index (D) were determined. The relationship between data of chemical parameters and scores of biotic indices were investigated by using statistical methods. With decision tree technique, artificial neural network (ANN) and logistic regression model, chemical water quality was predicted from scores of biotic indices. A success at 67% was provided in the prediction of chemical water quality class of Mudurnu River.		[Ogleni, Nurtac] Sakarya Univ, Dept Environm Engn, TR-54187 Sakarya, Turkey; [Topal, Bayram] Sakarya Univ, Dept Ind Engn, TR-54187 Sakarya, Turkey; [Ogleni, Nurtac] Sakarya Univ, Dept Environm Engn, Esentepe Campus, TR-54187 Sakarya, Turkey								24							Engineering, Civil; Water Resources	WOS:000293136700008		
J	Xu, Henglong; Jiang, Yong; Al-Rasheid, Khaled A. S.; Song, Weibo; Warren, Alan								Spatial variation in taxonomic distinctness of ciliated protozoan communities at genus-level resolution and relationships to marine water quality in Jiaozhou Bay, northern China								HYDROBIOLOGIA				665	1			67	78		10.1007/s10750-011-0604-9			MAY 2011	2011	Taxonomic distinctness of ciliated protozoan communities at genus-level resolution was studied over a 12-month period (June 2007-May 2008) in Jiaozhou Bay, northern China. Samples were collected biweekly from three different depths at each of five sites. A range of physico-chemical parameters were also measured in order to determine water quality. Multivariate and univariate analyses showed that (1) spatial patterns of ciliated protozoan communities were significantly different among the five sampling sites (P < 0.05); (2) there were no significant differences among the three depths at each site (P > 0.05); (3) the taxonomic patterns of ciliate communities at genus-level resolution were significantly correlated with the spatial variation of environmental variables, in particular nitrate nitrogen (NO3-N), sum of NO3-N and nitrite nitrogen (NO (n) -N), and soluble reactive phosphate (SRP); (4) the Margalef's index did not show a significant correlation with chemical parameters although it was higher for the less eutrophic than the more eutrophic sites (P > 0.05); (5) the average taxonomic distinctness (Delta(+)) and variation in taxonomic distinctness (I >(+)) of the ciliate communities at genus-level resolution were significantly negatively correlated with the combination of NO (n) -N and SRP; (6) the paired taxonomic biodiversity indices (Delta(+) and I >(+)) showed a clear decreasing trend of departure from the expected taxonomic breadth in response to water quality. These results suggest that spatial patterns and taxonomic distinctness (especially the paired Delta(+) and I >(+)) of ciliated protozoan communities at genus-level resolution can be used as potential indicators for assessing marine water quality while minimizing costs in terms of the time and resources needed for sample analysis.		[Xu, Henglong; Jiang, Yong; Song, Weibo] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, Lab Protozool, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Al-Rasheid, Khaled A. S.] King Saud Univ, Dept Zool, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Warren, Alan] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Zool, London SW7 5BD, England; [Xu, Henglong] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, Lab Protozool, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								15							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000288515500005		
J	Saitoh, Shin-ichi; Suzuki, Hidekatsu; Hanzawa, Naoto; Tamate, Hidetoshi B.								Species diversity and community structure of pelagic copepods in the marine lakes of Palau								HYDROBIOLOGIA				666	1			85	97		10.1007/s10750-010-0095-0			MAY 2011	2011	Community structure and diversity patterns of pelagic copepods were investigated for the coastal areas and in the marine lakes of the Palau islands in the West Pacific. We conducted field surveys during 2004-2007 and collected zooplankton samples from eight coastal areas and 16 marine lakes. The marine lakes in the islands of Palau are limnologically classified into two types, meromictic and holomictic lakes. Species diversity indices (Margalef's species richness d', Shannon-Wiener index H', and Simpson's dominance) were measured at each sampling site. The copepod community structure was analyzed using multivariate analyses, hierarchical cluster analysis, and non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) from the PRIMER package. A total of 36 copepod taxa were identified to the genus or species level from Calanoida, Cyclopoida, Harpacticoida, and Poecilostomatoida. Multivariate analysis based on the Bray-Curtis similarity index revealed that copepod assemblages could be classified into three different groups according to their habitat: (I) meromictic lakes, (II) holomictic lakes with an exceptionally shallow and flat basin (type A holomictic lakes), (III) holomictic lakes with a deep basin (type B holomictic lakes), and all coastal areas. The meromictic lakes were characterized by markedly decreased species diversity (d' = 0.15, H' = 0.41) in which only two brackish-water species, Bestiolina similis and Oithona dissimilis, were dominant. Type A holomictic lakes were characterized by relatively low levels of species diversity (d' = 1.25, H' = 1.35). In contrast, type B holomictic lakes were characterized by relatively high levels of species diversity, which was comparable to that of coastal areas. This result indicated that zooplankton assemblages in the type B holomictic lakes were closely related to a coastal community. The present study showed that the species diversity of pelagic copepods varies according to the level of isolation and the local environmental conditions for each marine lake.		[Saitoh, Shin-ichi; Hanzawa, Naoto; Tamate, Hidetoshi B.] Yamagata Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Engn, Yamagata 9908560, Japan; [Suzuki, Hidekatsu] Ishinomaki Senshu Univ, Fac Sci & Engn, Ishinomaki, Miyagi 9868580, Japan; [Saitoh, Shin-ichi] Yamagata Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Engn, Kojirakawa 1-4-12, Yamagata 9908560, Japan								8							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000289002100008		
J	Monroy-Vilchis, Octavio; Zarco-Gonzalez, Martha M.; Ramirez-Pulido, Jose; Aguilera-Reyes, Ulises								Diversity of mammals in the Natural Reserve Sierra Nanchititla, Mexico								REVISTA MEXICANA DE BIODIVERSIDAD				82	1			237	248					MAR 2011	2011	The Sierra Nanchititla Natural Reserve (SNNR) is the second largest natural protected area in the State of Mexico, however its biodiversity is largely unknown. The aim of this research was to estimate its mammalian diversity. Direct trapping was used to capture small mammals and camera-trapping for the study of medium and large mammals. Diversity was calculated from Margalef's index, dominance and equity were evaluated through Simpson's and Shannon-Wiener indexes, respectively. Fifty three species were registered, 3 of them are the first record for the State of Mexico, 10 are endemic to Mexico and 4 are considered in some category of vulnerability by the Mexican government. The area is inhabited by 5 of the 6 Mexican felid species. The mastofaunistic composition of SNRN was compared with that of the Sierra Purepecha, Michoacan, according to Jaccard's index, the similarity between them is low, sharing 38% of species. Considering the results, it is clear the importance of SNNR, regarding its mastofaunistic diversity, and the need to implement strategies for its conservation.		[Monroy-Vilchis, Octavio; Zarco-Gonzalez, Martha M.; Aguilera-Reyes, Ulises] Univ Autonoma Estado Mexico, Estn Biol Sierra Nanchititla, Fac Ciencias, Col Ctr,Inst Literario 100, Toluca 50000, Estado Mexico, Mexico; [Ramirez-Pulido, Jose] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana Iztapalapa, Dept Biol, Div Ciencias Biol & Salud, Mexico City 09340, DF, Mexico; [Monroy-Vilchis, Octavio] Univ Autonoma Estado Mexico, Estn Biol Sierra Nanchititla, Fac Ciencias, Col Ctr,Inst Literario 100, Toluca 50000, Estado Mexico, Mexico								12							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000289050900021		
J	Odat, Nidal; Al Khateeb, Wesam; Muhaidat, Riyadh; Al U'datt, Muhammad; Irshiad, Leena								The Effect of Exotic <i>Acacia saligna</i> Tree on Plant Biodiversity of Northern Jordan								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE AND BIOLOGY				13	5			823	826					2011	2011	Exotic species can cause a major threat to ecosystems, because of its effect on reducing natural biodiversity. The aim of this paper is to study the effects of the exotic Acacia saligna on native plant biodiversity of northern part of Jordan. Within each studied area we estimated plant species cover in six replicates of a 0.5 m(2) quadrate distributed randomly inside and outside the canopy of A. saligna. From these plant cover we estimated the total number of species, Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's diversity index and Margalef's diversity index of the associated annual and perennial species. The overall results showed that the effect of A. saligna on plant diversity depends largely on the proximity to the tree canopy. Namely, it has been found that native plant species diversity such as Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's diversity index are reduced under canopy (1.88, 0.8831) compared to the outside canopy of the trees (2.21, 0.876), respectively (One-way ANOVA; F = 14.99, 12.46; P-values<0.001). Moreover, observed and cumulative species richness of native plant biodiversity of Jordan is significantly affected by the presence of this exotic tree. It can be concluded that competition and intrinsic characteristics of tree i.e., nutrient uptake efficiency, are among the possible mechanisms responsible for the impact of A. saligna trees on native plants of Jordan. (C) 2011 Friends Science Publishers		[Odat, Nidal] Al Hussein Bin Talal Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Maan 71111, Jordan; [Al Khateeb, Wesam; Muhaidat, Riyadh] Yarmouk Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Irbid 21163, Jordan; [Al U'datt, Muhammad] Jordan Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Nutr & Food Technol, Irbid 22110, Jordan; [Irshiad, Leena] Al Balqa Appl Univ, Dept Biotechnol, Salt 19117, Jordan; [Odat, Nidal] Al Hussein Bin Talal Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Maan 71111, Jordan								7							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Biology	WOS:000296063200036		
J	Vijayanand, Packiaraj; Anbalagan, Thangaiyan; Saravanan, Ravichandran; Ammaiappan, Vasagaperumal; Rajagopal, Santhanam								DIVERSITY OF WRASSE SPECIES ALONG GULF OF MANNAR BIOSPHERE RESERVE (SOUTH EAST COAST OF INDIA)								THALASSAS				27	1			57	66					JAN 2011	2011	Coral reef fishes comprise the most specious assemblages of vertebrates on the earth. The variety of shapes, sizes, colours, behavior, and ecology exhibited by reef fishes is amazing. Biodiversity of wrasse fish species were analyzed along Kilakarai coastal region which is situated adjacent to coral reef ecosystem, Gulf of Mannar South East coast of India. In the fishery wrasse was caught as by-catch. Here fisherman depends mainly on commercial food fishes, live ornamental fishes, lobsters and molluscan fisheries for their economy. Resource assessment was made every month over a period of one year. Totally 10 species of wrasse were identified and percentage occurrence was calculated for every month. Thalassomu lunare occur throughout the year with higher percentage of (60.95) during July. The PRIMER software package was used to assess the various aspects of biodiversity. Margalef's index of species richness, the month of March was maximum (1.5498) and minimum (1.1524) observed in July. K-dominance plot for all the seasons shows maximum population (8 sp) during March and minimum (3 sp) during July, contributing 80% of the total population. In month wise variation, the month of April and June (4 and 6) clustered together at the highest level of similarity. In species wise, C. chlorurus (2) and H. dussumieri cluster together showed highest level of similarity. Hence the assessment of fish species and fishing techniques are necessary to conserve the diversity of fishes in Gulf of Mannar.		[Vijayanand, Packiaraj; Anbalagan, Thangaiyan; Saravanan, Ravichandran; Ammaiappan, Vasagaperumal; Rajagopal, Santhanam] Annamalai Univ, CAS Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Vijayanand, Packiaraj] Annamalai Univ, CAS Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								0							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000285432200005		
J	Xu Kuidong; Choi, Joong Ki; Lei Yanli; Yang, Eun Jin								Marine ciliate community in relation to eutrophication of coastal waters in the Yellow Sea								CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				29	1			118	127		10.1007/s00343-011-9106-x			JAN 2011	2011	We assessed the potential of marine ciliate community as an indicator to coastal water quality using water samples collected from four stations in the Yellow Sea in the summer 2000. The four stations were characterized by different levels of pollution. The ciliate communities consisted primarily of tintinnids and aloricate ciliates that were < 30 mu m. A total of 78 species were classified: 55 species at Station 2, 51 species each at Stations 1 and 4, and 47 species at Station 3. The mean number of species at each site was 29.2 +/- 2.0 (Station 1), 28.5 +/- 2.9 (Station 2), 27.8 +/- 1.7 (Station 3), and 24.5 +/- 2.3 (Station 4). The abundance was highly variable: 19 331 +/- 11 187 ind./L at Station 1, 7 960 +/- 5 639 ind./L at Station 2, 29 015 +/- 12 999 ind./L at Station 3, and 8 190 +/- 4 658 ind./L at Station 4. Our results suggest that neither the simple chemical analysis (e.g. chemical oxygen demand, dissolved inorganic nitrogen, and phosphate) nor the eutrophication/pollution index adequately described the water quality at the four stations. The same was true of the number of species and their abundance, both of which had no correlation with the chemical indices. In contrast, Margalef's diversity index values (3.12 at Station 2, 2.89 at Station 1, and 2.64 at Stations 3 and 4) generally discriminated the water quality status of the four stations. The difference in water quality among the stations was strongly supported by the pattern of species richness (i.e. the total number of species) of ciliates at each station. Our evaluation was consistent with the results of long-term water quality monitoring at the four stations. With increasing eutrophication, we observed also a compositional and functional shift in the ciliate assemblages from algivorous oligotrich/choreotrich to nonselective-omnivorous gymnostomatids to bacterivorous-detrivorous scuticociliatids. Thus, ciliates may be used to indicate the coastal water quality status of a given site.		[Choi, Joong Ki; Lei Yanli] Inha Univ, Dept Oceanog, Inchon 402751, South Korea; [Xu Kuidong; Lei Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Yang, Eun Jin] KORDI, Korea Polar Res Inst, Inchon 406840, South Korea; [Choi, Joong Ki] Inha Univ, Dept Oceanog, Inchon 402751, South Korea								15							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000286203200016		
J	Patra, Ashis; Santra, Kalyan Brata; Manna, Chanchal Kumar								Relationship Among the Abundance of Waterbird Species Diversity, Macrophytes, Macroinvertebrates and Physico-chemical Characteristics in Santragachi Jheel, Howrah, WB, India								ACTA ZOOLOGICA BULGARICA				62	3			277	300					DEC 2010	2010	The present study has been designed with the aim of investigating the avifaunal diversity in Santragachi Jheel. Avifaunal population expresses distinct seasonal variation in this Jheel. Total 33 species belonging to 8 families and 23 genera were recorded which were categorized as resident, resident migratory and migratory birds. The population density of total avifauna was found to be maximum in winter. Family Anhingidae, Phalacrocoracidae and Ardeidae showed premonsoon maxima at all sites (S(1), S(2) and S(3)) of Jheel. The abundance of family Rallidae and Anatidae was higher in winter whereas Jacanidae density expressed highest density in monsoon period. Higher values of Shannon-Wiener index of diversity and Margalef's species richness of avifauna were recorded in Santragachi Jheel. Highest value of avifaunal index of similarity was observed between S(1) and S(3) site of Santragachi Jheel. Bird's abundance is remarkably related with various physico-chemical parameters of water, macrophytes, macroinvertebrates and other physical factors of Jheel. Total avifaunal abundance was found to be positively influenced by dissolved oxygen (DO) and NO(3) in Jheel. Family Ardeidae has positive correlation with temperature of water (WT). Anatidae has expressed positive relationship with NO(3). Ardeidae has strong positive correlation with free floating type of macrophytes. Jacanidae family was positively influenced by total macrophytes (T-MACP) and free floating (FF) type of macrophytes. Total avifaunal population has been positively correlated with total macroinvertebrate abundance. Family Rallidae and Anatidae project positive correlation with crustacean population in the Jheel. Anatidae has positive correlation with Diptera and Gastropoda family. The population of the birds fluctuated seasonally between stations to station. A remarkable interrelationship was established between avifaunal density and trophic characteristics, especially phosphate content in Santragachi Jheel.		[Patra, Ashis; Santra, Kalyan Brata; Manna, Chanchal Kumar] Univ Kalyani, Dept Zool, Endocrinol Lab, Kalyani 41235, W Bengal, India; [Patra, Ashis] Univ Kalyani, Dept Zool, Endocrinol Lab, Kalyani 41235, W Bengal, India								8							Zoology	WOS:000287120900005		
J	Gomes-Anaya, J. A.; Novelo-Gutierrez, R.								RICHNESS AND STRUCTURE OF AN ODONATA LARVAL ASSEMBLAGE FROM RIO PINOLAPA, TEPALCATEPEC, MICHOACAN, MEXICO IN RELATION TO THEIR HABITAT CHARACTERISTICS								ODONATOLOGICA				39	4			287	303					DEC 1 2010	2010	The odon. larval assemblage from Rio Pinolapa (RP) in the municipality of Tepal-catepec. Michoacan, is described. Sampling was conducted twice in each season (8 trips in total), and additionally some physicochemical variables of the river channel were recorded. Strata (shores, riffles and eddies) and seasonal variation of assemblages are described and compared using classical diversity measures such as Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's diversity index as a dominance measure, Margalef's richness index and Pielou's evenness index. For comparing strata and seasonal diversity the Renyis diversity profiles were used. A Cluster Analysis was performed on a Bray-Curtis similarity matrix to explore the faunal relationships among year seasons and strata. CCA was also performed to investigate the relationships between the physicochemical and species abundance matrixes. As results, 28 spp. (12 Zygoptera and 16 Anisoptera) were recorded as larvae. Most abundant species were Erpetogomphus claps. Brechmorhoga praecox and Phyllogomphoides The highest number of spp. was registered in winter and the lowest in summer. Among strata the highest abundance was recorded in riffles, although the shoreline had the largest number of spp. The most similar assemblages were those of autumn and winter. Shore habitats were more heterogeneous than eddies and riffles and this could explain the larger number of species. The Clench's model explains better the data. Additionally, we used the slope of cumulative number of spp. curve for assessing completeness of the RP list. CCA was significant, with pH, autumn, shoreline and riffles the most important variables. This means that species variation is related to physicochemical, temporal and strata conditions in RP.		[Gomes-Anaya, J. A.; Novelo-Gutierrez, R.] Inst Ecol AC, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico; [Gomes-Anaya, J. A.] Inst Ecol AC, Apartado Postal 63, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico								4							Entomology	WOS:000285219400001		
J	Kumar, J. I. Nirmal; Kumar, Rita N.; Bhoi, Rohit Kumar; Sajish, P. R.								Tree species diversity and soil nutrient status in three sites of tropical dry deciduous forest of western India								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				51	2			273	279					WIN 2010	2010	The present work aimed to study the tree species diversity and soil nutrient status in three sites of tropical dry deciduous forest of western India (23 degrees 3' N latitude to 69 degrees 30' E, 23 degrees 3' N latitude to 70 degrees 32' E and 23 degrees 3' N latitude to 72 degrees 33' E). A total of 93 tree species of 85 genera belonging to 24 families were encountered. The tree stand density varied from 458-728 individuals ha(-1) with the average basal area ranging from 5.96 - 19.31 m(2) ha(-1). Shannon-Weiner Index (H') ranged from 0.67 - 0.79. The Simpson Index of dominance varied from 0.08 - 0.16, the Margalef's Species Richness Index varied from 21.41 - 23.71, Equitability or evenness index varied from 0.02 - 0.05, the species heterogeneity index varied from 2.53 - 3.61 and 6 diversity varied from 2.05 - 4.87. A greater number of tree species fell in 41 - 50 cm DBH followed by 21 30 cm, 0 - 10 cm diameter class, but less. number of tree individuals are represented in above 100 cm diameter class. The Combretaceae was represented by the highest number of species (9 spp.) followed by Rutaceae (7 spp.). Each of the individual soil variables showed a high positive correlation with tree species richness while tree density showed a clearly negative correlation with variables like phosphorous and nitrogen and positive correlation with carbon.		[Kumar, J. I. Nirmal; Bhoi, Rohit Kumar; Sajish, P. R.] Inst Sci & Technol Adv Studies & Res ISTAR, PG Dept Environm Sci & Technol, Vallabh Vidyanagar 388120, Gujarat, India; [Kumar, Rita N.] NV Patel Coll Pure & Appl Sci, Dept Biosci & Environm Sci, Vallabh Vidyanagar 388120, Gujarat, India; [Kumar, J. I. Nirmal] Inst Sci & Technol Adv Studies & Res ISTAR, PG Dept Environm Sci & Technol, Vallabh Vidyanagar 388120, Gujarat, India								25							Ecology	WOS:000275880600013		
J	Li, Jing; Li, Ming-Guang; Yang, Jian; Ai, Ying; Xu, Run-Lin								Community Characteristics of Soil Ciliates at Baiyun Mountain, Guangzhou, China								ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES				49	6			713	723					NOV 2010	2010	Jing Li, Ming-Guang Li, Jian Yang, Ying Ai, and Run-Lin Xu (2010) Community characteristics of soil ciliates at Baiyun Mountain, Guangzhou, China. Zoological Studies 49(6): 713-723. We investigated the relationships between the soil ciliate community and environmental factors at 7 different habitats at Baiyun Mountain, Guangzhou, southern China. The abundance, dominance, biodiversity, colpodid/polyhymenophoran (C/P) ratio, and community similarity of soil ciliates were investigated using qualitative and quantitative analyses. We found a total of 114 species of ciliates belonging to 9 classes, 18 orders, and 47 genera. The 1st dominant group (i.e., the group richest in species) was the Spirotrichea, followed by the Colpodea, with dominance values of 38.6% and 21.93%, respectively. The highest abundance of ciliates was found in winter at site 5 (with representative vegetation of Tetradium ruticarpum Hartley), reaching 3.87 x 10(4) individuals (ind.)/g, and the lowest in spring at site 2 (with representative vegetation of Schima superba Gardn. et Champ.) at 9.2 x 10(2) ind./g. Margalef's richness index ranged 2.07-5.46. Statistical analyses demonstrated that ciliate abundances were positively correlated with soil moisture, organic matter, ammonia-nitrogen, total nitrogen, and total phosphorus, but negatively correlated with total potassium. Soil pH, nitrate-nitrogen, and sulfate showed insignificant effects. Analyses of C/P ratios and diversity indices implied that habitat conditions of sites 2 and 7 were relatively unfavorable for soil protozoa. http://zoolstud.sinica.edu.tw/Journals/49.6/713.pdf		[Li, Jing; Li, Ming-Guang; Xu, Run-Lin] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Sch Life Sci, Guangzhou 510275, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Yang, Jian] S China Inst Environm Sci, Guangzhou 510655, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Ai, Ying] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, Wuhan 430071, Peoples R China; [Xu, Run-Lin] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Sch Life Sci, Guangzhou 510275, Guangdong, Peoples R China								14							Zoology	WOS:000284339300001		
J	Datta, S. N.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Jaiswar, A. K.; Ziauddin, G.								A comparative study on intertidal faunal biodiversity of selected beaches of Mumbai coast								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				31	6			981	986					NOV 2010	2010	Comparative study has been done to examine the biodiversity and ecological status of the intertidal region of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Bandstand and National Centre for Performirig Arts (NCPA) rocky beaches in Mumbai, West coast of India. A total of 50 species of intertidal organisms were recorded from these shores. Shannon and Simpson's diversity index, Margalef's richness index and Pielou's evenness index indicated different level of ecological state of the shore in different months. Dendrograms and 2-D non metric MDS ordination from Bray-Curtis similarity matrix of occurrence of intertidal organisms from these sites showed highest similarity and combination pattern of occurrence between Nerita oryzarum and Planaxis sulcatus in TIFR and Bandstand shore. Nerita oryzarum and Tactarius malaccanus at NCPA shore. Abundance/biomass comparison (ABC) method of determining level of disturbance also pointed towards the polluted status of these shores. Study concludes that though these beaches are highly disturbed due to anthropogenic activities, they still support a rich intertidal biodiversity which need immediate attention for protection and conservation.		[Datta, S. N.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Jaiswar, A. K.] Deemed Univ, ICAR, Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Fisheries Resource Management Div, Bombay 400061, Maharashtra, India; [Ziauddin, G.] Cent Res Inst Jute & Allied Fibres ICAR, Fishery Sci Div, Burdwan 713403, W Bengal, India; [Datta, S. N.] Deemed Univ, ICAR, Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Fisheries Resource Management Div, Bombay 400061, Maharashtra, India								9							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000283973300015		
J	Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco								Ecological assessment of highly heterogeneous systems: The importance of taxonomic sufficiency								LIMNOLOGICA				40	3			208	214		10.1016/j.limno.2009.06.011			SEP 2010	2010	We assess the effects of taxonomic resolution (genus-family levels) on the ecological assessment of 39 highly heterogeneous ponds located in north-western Spain. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) and one-way analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) were used to investigate the effects of taxonomic resolution on the macroinvertebrate assemblage structure. The Mann Whitney U-test and discrimination efficiency were used to assess the ability of nine diversity measures (total richness, rarefied richness samples of 25, 50 and 100 individuals, Margalef's index, Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Weaver's index, Simpson's index and percent dominant taxon) to discriminate between acceptable (best available and good conditions) and unacceptable (moderate, poor and very poor) conditions using three levels of taxonomic resolution: (i) family, (ii) family plus subfamilies of benthic non-biting midges and (iii) genus level. Based on non-metric MDS, the macroinvertebrate assemblages of ponds of acceptable (A) and unacceptable (N) conditions were statistically undistinguishable, both at genus and family levels. On the other hand, based on several community metrics (total richness, Margalef index, etc.) the two sets of samples were statistically different, although only when the genus or the subfamily level was used and after Bonferroni correction. These results suggest that the structure of macroinvertebrate assemblages by itself is more sensitive than the specific composition in distinguishing the fauna living in acceptable and unacceptable conditions. Moreover, dealing with families including many taxa generally showing different tolerance to disturbance may lead to misclassification of ponds. We agree, however, that the two approaches, i.e. assemblage composition and diversity measures, are conceptually different and hence they should be used in combination for a better understanding of the response of single metrics. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco] Univ Leon, Dept Biodivers & Environm Management, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, E-24071 Leon, Spain; [Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Environm Assessment, POB 7050, Uppsala, Sweden								11							Limnology	WOS:000280034600002		
J	Ingole, Baban S.; Sautya, Sabyasachi; Sivadas, Sanitha; Singh, Ravail; Nanajkar, Mandar								Macrofaunal community structure in the western Indian continental margin including the oxygen minimum zone								MARINE ECOLOGY-AN EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE				31	1			148	166		10.1111/j.1439-0485.2009.00356.x			MAR 2010	2010	Patterns of macrofaunal distribution were studied along the western Indian continental margin to distinguish the role of habitat heterogeneity in generating and maintaining community structure. A transect perpendicular to the coast at 14 degrees N latitude was selected for seabed sampling. Eight stations were sampled in the depth range 34-2546 m and characterized with respect to macrofaunal composition, abundance, biomass, diversity and feeding type. The sediments in the shelf region (34, 48, 100 m) and upper slope (525 m) were characterized by silty and sandy facies, whereas the mid slope (1001 m), lower slope (1524 m) and basin (2001, 2546 m) consisted of clayey silts. The highest value of sediment chlorophyll-a (Chl-a) and total organic carbon (C-org) were recorded from the mid slope areas. Faunal abundance and biomass increased from the shallow to deeper depths in the shelf region, and decreased in the slope region (525-1001 m) due to the reduced bottom-water oxygen. The community parameters showed an overall increase in both the lower slope and basin areas. A total of 81 macro-invertebrate species belonging to five major groups represented the macrofauna of the area. Polychaeta was the major group at all depths. Among polychaete families, species of the Spionidae, particularly Prionospio pinnata, predominated at the oxygen minimum zone (OMZ) core and Cossuridae dominated in the lower part of the OMZ in sediments of the mid slope region (1001 m depth). Species diversity was higher in the basin than in the slope region. Fluctuations in diversity appear to be partly due to the bottom-water dissolved oxygen (DO) gradient which includes values that are below the oxygen tolerance of many benthic species. Further, Margalef's index (d) and Shannon-Wiener index (H) showed a significant negative (P < 0.01) relationship between sediment Chl-a and C-org, suggesting food availability as a critical factor in species dominance. Results of multivariate analyses suggest that for continental margin fauna, different physiographic provinces and an oxygen gradient have a higher influence on the species composition and diversity than other oceanographic conditions.		[Ingole, Baban S.; Sautya, Sabyasachi; Sivadas, Sanitha; Singh, Ravail; Nanajkar, Mandar] Natl Inst Oceanog, CSIR, Panaji 403004, Goa, India; [Ingole, Baban S.] Natl Inst Oceanog, CSIR, Panaji 403004, Goa, India								56							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000275769300010		
J	Yemane, Dawit; Field, John G.; Leslie, Rob W.								Spatio-temporal patterns in the diversity of demersal fish communities off the south coast of South Africa								MARINE BIOLOGY				157	2			269	281		10.1007/s00227-009-1314-y			FEB 2010	2010	The diversity of ecological communities has been the focus of many studies. Because biodiversity provides several indicators used in an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) to track changes in fish communities, we investigated the spatial and temporal patterns in the diversity of some demersal fish communities subjected to varying fishing pressure. Depth and catch rate were the most important predictors in explaining changes in diversity followed by longitude and survey year. Diversity, as measured by the various indices except for taxonomic distinctness (a dagger*), initially declined with increasing depth to about a depth of 80 m, then increased to about 150 m after which it declined. Taxonomic distinctness index (a dagger*) showed an increase in the taxonomic heterogeneity of the demersal community below the 300-m isobath. Diversity remained relatively constant with increase in longitude to around 24A degrees E (which has the lowest diversity) after which it increased. The assessment of the temporal trend in diversity indicates that survey year has a significant effect on all diversity indices except for a dagger*. Diversity increased and dominance declined with time. This may be result of a decline in the abundance of dominant species or an increase in the abundance less dominant species, or a combination of both effects. Multivariate analysis of the set of diversity indices showed three groups of indices: those reflecting species richness (S, Margalef's d), those measuring mainly taxonomic relatedness (a dagger*), and those balancing the richness and evenness components of diversity (J', H', lambda, a dagger, Hill's N1, and Hill's N2). The relationship between evenness, catch rate, and size was also investigated. Size classes with highest evenness were found to have lowest catch rate and vice versa. This highlights the need to consider the size and trophic level of species when linking diversity to the functioning of ecosystems.		[Field, John G.] Univ Cape Town, MArine Res MA RE Inst, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Yemane, Dawit; Field, John G.] Univ Cape Town, Dept Zool, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Yemane, Dawit] Dept Environm Affairs & Tourism Marine & Coastal, Private Bag X2, ZA-8012 Cape Town, South Africa								20							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000273560200005		
J	Turyahabwe, N.; Tweheyo, M.								Does forest tenure influence forest vegetation characteristics? A comparative analysis of private, local and central government forest reserves in central Uganda								INTERNATIONAL FORESTRY REVIEW				12	4			320	338		10.1505/ifor.12.4.320			2010	2010	This paper investigated the influence of forest tenure on vegetation characteristics for selected forests under private, District Forestry Services of local governments and National Forestry Authority in central Uganda. Two hundred and twelve plant species in 65 families and 168 genera were recorded. The family Moracette was the most species rich in Central Forest Reserves (CFRs), while Euphorbiaceae were the most species rich in private forests and Local Forest Reserves (LFRs), respectively. There were 174 species in CFRs, 144 species in LFRs and 112 species in private forests. Our findings indicated a remarkable shift in floristic composition among the studied forests from Albizia-Piptadeniastrum-Celtis species primary dominance by 1964 report to current secondary and colonising species of Trilepisium-madagascariensis-Funtumia africana-Pseudospondias macrocarpa and Macaranga schweinfurthii. Diversity measured by two indices, i.e., the Shannon diversity and evenness for the different growth forms differed significantly among the forest ownership categories. The CFRs were the most diverse for the trees, while the private forests were the most diverse for the ground flora species. Plant species richness also expressed by the two indices: Species density and Margalef's diversity index followed the same trend, with CFRs being the most species rich for the trees, followed by the private forests and LFRs. The population structure characteristics i.e. stem densities, mean DBH and basal area of saplings and trees were higher in private forests than CFRs and LFRs. Diameter size for all species combined followed the inverse J-shape, typical of mixed-age stands. LFRs and CFRs were highly affected by human disturbances which may be an indicator that government agencies are not as much in control as private forest owners. We found that the composition and distribution of species in the Mpigi forests is complex because it is influenced by two conflicting factors i.e. ecological stability versus human disturbances. We conclude that human activities influenced by forest tenure reduced plant species diversity and composition at different sites; confirming the argument by common property theorists that open access resources are not compatible with biodiversity conservations. There is thus a need for forest managers to regulate human activities for effective conservation of forests.		[Turyahabwe, N.] Makerere Univ, Dept Community Forestry & Extens, Kampala, Uganda; [Tweheyo, M.] Makerere Univ, Dept Forest Biol & Ecosyst Management, Kampala, Uganda; [Turyahabwe, N.] Makerere Univ, Dept Community Forestry & Extens, POB 7062, Kampala, Uganda								2							Forestry	WOS:000287635100002		
J	Akbulut, Mehmet; Celik, Ekrem Sanver; Odabasi, Deniz Anil; Kaya, Hasan; Selvi, Kahraman; Arslan, Naime; Odabasi, Serpil S.								SEASONAL DISTRIBUTION AND COMPOSITION OF BENTHIC MACROINVERTEBRATE COMMUNITIES IN MENDERES CREEK, CANAKKALE, TURKEY								FRESENIUS ENVIRONMENTAL BULLETIN				18	11A			2136	2145					2009	2009	Seasonal changes of proportional distribution, biotic indices, abundance, and frequency of benthic macroinvertebrate communities in Menderes Creek were investigated at 5 stations between November 2005 and July 2006. The fauna included a total of 87 taxa belonging principally to Insecta (52 taxa, especially Chironomidae), Oligochaeta (12 taxa), Mollusca (11 taxa), Hirudinae (7 taxa), and Malacostraca (5 taxa). Mean density was estimated to be 778 individuals m(-2) for the 87 taxa. Mollusca (38.5%) and Insecta (39.9%) are the dominant groups among the macroinvertebrate assemblages. Average Shannon-Wiener diversity index was calculated as 1.41, average Margalef's richness index was 1.27, and average Pielou index was 0.61. The results of one-way analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) indicated that macroinvertebrate compositions were significantly different between sampling sites (p<0.05). ANOSIM and similarity percentage analysis (SIMPER) revealed significant differences and a high degree of community dissimilarity within and between the sampling stations.		[Akbulut, Mehmet; Celik, Ekrem Sanver; Odabasi, Deniz Anil; Kaya, Hasan; Selvi, Kahraman; Odabasi, Serpil S.] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Fac Fisheries, TR-17100 Canakkale, Turkey; [Arslan, Naime] Eskisehir Osmangazi Univ, Fac Sci & Arts, Dept Biol, TR-26480 Eskisehir, Turkey; [Akbulut, Mehmet] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Fac Fisheries, TR-17100 Canakkale, Turkey								11							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000272582700001		
J	Lin, H. -T.; Sun, C. -Y.; Hung, C. -T.								A study in the relationship between greenery of urban parks and bird diversity in Tainan City, Taiwan								WIT Transactions on Ecology and the Environment				117				193	202		10.2495/SC080191			2009	2009	Green space is important for the maintenance of the ecological dimension of a sustainable urban landscape. Therefore, in order to figure out the relationship between the greening of urban parks and bird diversity, we used 5 avian ecological diversity indexes, such as Species richness, Abundance, Shannon-Weiner diversity index, Evenness, and Margalef's richness indices, to evaluate the functionality of different types of urban parks. Therefore, birds in 17 parks were surveyed with the circular-plot method from August of 2004 to April of 2005; meanwhile, the greening level of urban park of Tainan city in Taiwan was measured by remote sensing method. As the result, overall there was higher bird species richness in higher greening level parks. Our findings emphasize the importance of urban park with abundant greening to maintain high ecological diversity. Thus, we suggest that increasing greening level of urban parks can promote the bird diversity in urban area.		[Lin, H. -T.; Sun, C. -Y.; Hung, C. -T.] Natl Cheng Kung Univ, Dept Architecture, Tainan 70101, Taiwan				5th International Conference on Urban Regeneration and Sustainability (The Sustainable City)	SEP 24-26, 2008	Univ Thessaly; Wessex Inst Technol; Univ Siena; WIT Transact Ecol & Environm	Skiathos Isl, GREECE	5							Architecture; Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies; Regional & Urban Planning	WOS:000264338200019		
J	Whomersley, Paul; Ware, Suzanne; Rees, Hubert L.; Mason, Claire; Bolam, Thi; Huxham, Mark; Bates, Helen								Biological indicators of disturbance at a dredged-material disposal site in Liverpool Bay, UK: an assessment using time-series data								ICES JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE				65	8			1414	1420		10.1093/icesjms/fsn125			NOV 2008	2008	The development of reliable indicators of disturbance in the marine environment is essential because of increasing anthropogenic pressures and the need for more effective regulation. Our objective was to evaluate 13 nationally and internationally recommended metrics, using a large dataset derived from annual (1996-2003) macro-invertebrate infaunal surveys of a Liverpool Bay dredged-material disposal site. The primary and derived univariate metrics, along with multivariate derivations, were assessed and scored against six selection criteria. Metrics that did not correlate with the pressure indicator ( the annual quantity of material disposed of) were discounted from further analysis. Of the 13 metrics evaluated, only measures of species number and Margalef's species richness index were significantly correlated. Although assemblage types were significantly different between stations, common time patterns were observed, indicating that underlying larger scale, low-frequency events may have influenced assemblage development at all locations.		[Whomersley, Paul; Ware, Suzanne; Rees, Hubert L.; Mason, Claire; Bolam, Thi; Bates, Helen] Ctr Environm Fisheries & Aquaculture Sci, Lowestoft Lab, Lowestoft NR33 OHT, Suffolk, England; [Huxham, Mark] Napier Univ, Sch Life Sci, Edinburgh E10 5DT, Midlothian, Scotland; [Whomersley, Paul] Ctr Environm Fisheries & Aquaculture Sci, Lowestoft Lab, Pakefield Rd, Lowestoft NR33 OHT, Suffolk, England								11							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000259974600007		
J	Trzcinska, Magdalena; Pawlik-Skowronska, Barbara								Soil algal communities inhabiting zinc and lead mine spoils								JOURNAL OF APPLIED PHYCOLOGY				20	4			341	348		10.1007/s10811-007-9259-3			AUG 2008	2008	Algal communities inhabiting four calamine mine spoils differing in time since cessation of exploitation and loaded with high concentrations of zinc (20,284-61,599 mu g g(-1) soil DW), lead (2,620-3,885 mu g g(-1) DW) and cadmium (104-232 mu g g(-1) DW) were studied. In dump soils of slightly alkaline pH (7.28-7.52) and low nutrient (P-PO43-, N-NH4+, N-NO3-) concentrations, chlorophyll a content ranged from 0.41 to 2.27 mu g g(-1) soil DW. In total, 23 algal species were recorded. Chlorophyta were the dominant taxonomic group (42-55% of all identified species) followed by Cyanobacteria (28-36%) and Heterokontophyta (13-21%). The highest species richness (18) was observed in the oldest dump (120 years old) with natural succession, while in younger dumps it was lower (11-15). Total algal abundance ranged between 5.5 and 19.1 x 10(2) ind. g(-1) soil DW, and values of Margalef's diversity indices (1.59-2.25) were low. These results may suggest that both high concentrations of heavy metals and low nutrient content influenced the algal communities in all the dumps studied. The differences in algal microflora observed between tailing dumps may indicate that habitat quality improved with time and that algae isolated from Zn/Pb-loaded soils may be Zn/Pb-resistant ecotypes of ubiquitous species.		[Trzcinska, Magdalena; Pawlik-Skowronska, Barbara] Polish Acad Sci, Ctr Ecol Res, Expt Stn, PL-20080 Lublin, Poland; [Trzcinska, Magdalena] Polish Acad Sci, Ctr Ecol Res, Expt Stn, Niecala 18-3, PL-20080 Lublin, Poland								24							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000257934800001		
J	Callier, Myriam D.; McKindsey, Christopher W.; Desrosiers, Gaston								Evaluation of indicators used to detect mussel farm influence on the benthos: Two case studies in the Magdalen Islands, Eastern Canada								AQUACULTURE				278	1-4			77	88		10.1016/j.aquaculture.2008.03.026			JUN 10 2008	2008	The aim of this study was to identify appropriate indicators to determine the influence of mussel aquaculture on the benthic environment. Both sediment [particle size, sediment profile imaging (SPI), % OM] and benthic community (abundance, biomass, number of species, Margalef's species richness, Shannon-Weiner diversity, Pielou's eveness, individual body mass, trophic group, a biotic index - AMBI, and community structure) characteristics were evaluated at two mussel farms in Great-Entry (GE) and Havre-aux-Maisons (HAM) lagoons in the Magdalen Islands (Quebec, Canada). Sampling stations were positioned directly beneath the outer-most mussel lines (0 m) and at distances of 3, 6, 9,15, 30 m and at a control site (at either 300 or 500 m) along a transect leading from each farm. Contrasting patterns were observed. At GE, sediment characteristics and benthic communities did not vary among stations and were characterized by low diversity, abundance and biomass. At HAM, % OM decreased and macrofaunal diversity and abundance increased with increasing distance from the farm. Biomass was low under the mussel line, increased between 3 and 30 m and was low again at 300 m. This was explained by the abundance of the polychaete Pectinaria granulata, which seems to have benefited from a moderate organic loading associated with the mussel farm. The mean individual biomass of the second-order opportunistic deposit feeders P. granulata and Heteromastus filiformis decreased with distance from the farm, whereas that of the pollution-sensitive suspension feeder Ensis directus and deposit feeder Tellina agilis increased with increasing distance from the farm. At HAM, the effects of mussel farming were restricted to the vicinity of the farm, while at GE the pattern was less clear. The GE mussel farm had either little effect on the local environment or else larger-scale but diffuse effects. The study showed that the a priori choice of the sampling stations and indicators may influence the interpretation of the results. Community structure and SPI were the most efficient indices for detecting both small- and broader-scale influences at both studied mussel farms. Crown Copyright (C) 2008 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Callier, Myriam D.; McKindsey, Christopher W.] Fisheries & Oceans Canada, Maurice Lamontagne Inst, Mont Joli, PQ G5H 3Z4, Canada; [Callier, Myriam D.; McKindsey, Christopher W.; Desrosiers, Gaston] Univ Quebec, Inst Sci Mer, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada; [McKindsey, Christopher W.] Fisheries & Oceans Canada, Maurice Lamontagne Inst, 850 Route Mer,POB 1000, Mont Joli, PQ G5H 3Z4, Canada								76							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000257004800014		
J	Tsagarakis, K.; Machias, A.; Giannoulaki, M.; Somarakis, S.; Karakassis, I.								Seasonal and temporal trends in metrics of fish community for otter-trawl discards in a Mediterranean ecosystem								ICES JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE				65	4			539	550		10.1093/icesjms/fsn023			MAY 2008	2008	Trends in discard to marketed ratios, size spectra, diversities, and trophic levels of the demersal fish community were examined using data from a seasonally closed commercial trawl fishery in the eastern Mediterranean Sea (Ionian Sea), over a period of about 10 years. Trends were also examined for the artificial fractions derived from the discarding process (the marketed, the discarded, and the non-marketed clusters of the catch), as well as for the "big" and "small" fractions (defined by the size at which 50% of all specimens were discarded). The ratio of the discarded/ marketed catch fluctuated greatly. Two commercial (Merluccius merluccius, and Mullus barbatus) and two non-marketed species (Lepidotrigla cavillone, and Argentina sphyroena) were the characteristic species of the fractions. A declining trend with time was observed for the examined time-series for species richness (S), Margalef's d, and average taxonomic distinctness (Delta+), whereas the variation in taxonomic distinctness (Lambda+) increased. The composition and/or trophic level of discards in relation to the marketed catch seemed to be indicative of the exploitation state of the demersal community: differences between the discarded and marketed fractions were high at the beginning of the fishing season (autumn), but the values of the indices converged at the end of the fishing season (spring). These changes could be attributed to alternative discarding strategies for certain species in response to increased cumulative fishing mortality towards the end of the period.		[Tsagarakis, K.; Machias, A.; Giannoulaki, M.; Somarakis, S.] Hellen Ctr Marine Res, Iraklion 71003, Crete, Greece; [Tsagarakis, K.; Karakassis, I.] Univ Crete, Dept Biol, Iraklion 71003, Crete, Greece; [Machias, A.] Hellen Ctr Marine Res, POB 2214, Iraklion 71003, Crete, Greece								36							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000255816900005		
J	Hernandez-Munoz, Darlenys; Alcolado, Pedro M.; Hernandez-Gonzalez, Miguel								Effects of a submarine discharge of urban waste on octocoral (Octocorallia: Alcyonacea) communities in Cuba								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				56	1			65	75					MAR 2008	2008	The composition and structure of octocoral communities on coral reefs close to a submarine outfall were studied at Reparto Flores, west of Havana City, Cuba. Octocoral community changes after the deployment of the submarine outfall in 2000 were monitored from June 2002 to September 2005, taking as baseline the data existing before its construction. The area also receives the influence of the polluted river Quibu that passes through a great part of the west side of the City. Sampling was done by means of SCUBA diving, counting and identifying colonies in situ within a 1 m(2) frame that was randomly placed as many times as to warrant stabilized values of Shannon and Weaver's heterogeneity index H'. In agreement with the available hydrochemical information, changes in the diversity indexes (Shannon and Weaver's heterogeneity index H', Pielou's equitability index J', and Margalef's species richness index R,), the Herrera-Moreno's comparative pollution index (ICC), and density of some octocoral species at a depth of 10 m suggest a decrease in the influence of polluters from 1989 to 2005. Nevertheless, these indicators were affected in 2004 by a sudden intense but brief colonization of Briareum asbestinum, a species that is not typical of polluted places. At a depth of 20 m, a co-dominance of Plexaura kuekenthali and Eunicea clavigera (resistant and non resistant to pollution, respectively) and an increase of the comparative pollution index (ICC) was observed. The increase of P kuekenthali, a pollution indicator, suggests a rise in the pollution effect 20 m in depth, because of the recent impact caused by the greater closeness of the outfall mouth 50 m deep. Results corroborate the hypothesis about the pollution indicator character of P kuekenthali. However, this could not be explored for Eunicea flexuosa (also considered a pollution-indicator) due to an intensive illegal selective extraction for lucrative handicraft purposes, which led to a remarkable decrease in its density. B. asbestinum and E. clavigera were outlined as poorly resistant to pollution.		[Hernandez-Munoz, Darlenys; Alcolado, Pedro M.; Hernandez-Gonzalez, Miguel] Minist Ciencia Tecnol & Medio Ambiente Cuba, Inst Oceanol, Havana 18406, Cuba; [Hernandez-Munoz, Darlenys] Minist Ciencia Tecnol & Medio Ambiente Cuba, Inst Oceanol, Ave 1 Ray 186, Havana 18406, Cuba								7							Biology	WOS:000254036200005		
J	Demjanova, E.; Macak, M.; Tyr, S.; Djalovic, I.; Zak, S.; Smatana, J.								Weed populations in maize as affected by crop rotation and primary soil tillage								JOURNAL OF PLANT DISEASES AND PROTECTION								529	533					2008	2008	A seven year field study was conducted in south-western Slovakia to investigate the effects of different soil tillage intensities and crop rotation patterns on weed density, weed species composition and diversity, and weed competition in maize. Maize was grown in four different crop rotations with three different soil tillage systems (conventional ploughing, 0.3m depth; offset disc ploughing, 0.15m depth; shallow loosening, 0.1 m depth). Dominant weed species were Amaranthus retroflexus L., Chenopodium album L., Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) P.Beauv., Convolvulus arvensis L. and Cirsium arvense (L.)Scop. Conventional tillage reduced weed density significantly, primarily through the reduction of perennial weeds. Significantly lower weed dry biomass was observed under conventional ploughing than under reduced tillage by offset disc ploughing or shallow loosening. Crop rotation did not have a significant influence on species richness as indicated by the Margalef's index. However, there was significantly higher total weed density in continuous maize cropping (38.5 plants m(-2)) than when maize was grown in rotation with spring barley (28.6 plants m(-2)) or in rotation with peas and winter wheat (25.8 plants m(-2)). Primary tillage systems had a more significant effect on the composition of the weed flora, weed density and diversity, and weed biomass than did crop rotation patterns.		[Demjanova, E.; Macak, M.; Tyr, S.; Smatana, J.] Slovak Univ Agr, Dept Sustainable Agr & Herbol, Nitra 94976, Slovakia; [Djalovic, I.] Fac Agron, Cacak, Serbia; [Zak, S.] Res Inst Plant Prod Piestany, Piestany 92168, Slovakia; [Macak, M.] Slovak Univ Agr, Dept Sustainable Agr & Herbol, Tr A Hlinku 2, Nitra 94976, Slovakia				24th German Conference on Weed Biology and Weed Control	MAR 04-06, 2008		Stuttgart Hohenheim, GERMANY	1							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Plant Sciences	WOS:000255966400092		
J	Gaelzer, Litiz Ricardo; Zahnon, Ilana R.								Diel variation of fish community in sandy beaches of southeastern Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF OCEANOGRAPHY				56	1			23	39		10.1590/S1679-87592008000100003			JAN-MAR 2008	2008	Fish living ill coastal waters present behavior patterns ruled by environmental light levels. Diet variations in fish community structure were investigated at Arraial do Cabo surf zone (22 degrees,58'S, 42 degrees 01'W). From September/2001 to August/2002 monthly sampling consisted of 12 hauls of a beach seine during the day and at night at Praia dos Anjos, Praia Grande and Prainha beaches. Different temporal distribution patterns of the ichthyc community were recorded. At Praia dos Anjos, total richness was higher at night while the average number of species, CPUE, Margalef's richness and Shannon diversity were generally hi.-her during the day. We believe that this pattern was caused by the displacement of some species such as Harengula clupeola, Trachinotus carolinus and Umbrina coroides at night to deeper areas searching for food or for predator avoidance. At Praia Grande and Prainha the average number of species, CPUE, richness and diversity indexes were generally higher at night with the dominant species H. clupeola, Pomatomus saltatrix and Sardinella brasiliensis. It is suggested that the main factor to diel variation is the protection against predators due to darkness, making visualization of the prey difficult, besides the presence of seasonal macroalgae beds at Prainha, which might function as a food area for piscivorous fishes due to the proximity of larger individuals in shallower water especially at night.		[Gaelzer, Litiz Ricardo] Inst Estudos Mar Alte Paulo Moreira IEAPM, Dept Oceanografia, Secao Recursos Vivos, BR-28930000 Arraial Do Cabo, RJ, Brazil; [Gaelzer, Litiz Ricardo; Zahnon, Ilana R.] Univ Estadual Norte Fluminense, Lab Ciencias Ambientais, BR-28013600 Campos Dos Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil; [Gaelzer, Litiz Ricardo] Inst Estudos Mar Alte Paulo Moreira IEAPM, Dept Oceanografia, Secao Recursos Vivos, Rua Kioto 253, BR-28930000 Arraial Do Cabo, RJ, Brazil								23							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000255882400003		
J	Merigot, Bastien; Bertrand, Jacques A.; Mazouni, Nabila; Mante, Claude; Durbec, Jean-Pierre; Gaertner, Jean-Claude								A multi-component analysis of species diversity of groundfish assemblages on the continental shelf of the Gulf of Lions (north-western Mediterranean Sea)								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				73	1-2			123	136		10.1016/j.ecss.2006.12.017			JUN 2007	2007	The multi-component aspect of species diversity of groundfish assemblages was examined on the basis of a set of experimental trawl surveys conducted on the continental shelf of the Gulf of Lions. The structure of species diversity was investigated through the simultaneous analysis of indices relating to 4 diversity components: (1) the number of species (species density S and Margalef's D-mg index), (2) rarity (number of species with less than 5% of occurrence), (3) evenness (Heip's E-Heip and Berger-Parker's 1/d indices) and (4) taxonomic diversity (Delta, Delta*, Delta(+), Delta(+)). In addition, two popular heterogeneous indices (Simpson's 1 - D and Shannon's H' indices) combining the number of species and evenness were also considered. PCA based on Spearman's correlation coefficients was carried out to investigate empirical relationships between these 11 indices while genecalized linear models (GLMs) were used to analyse diversity patterns in relation to bathymetry. Our results showed that the 11 species diversity indices studied might be grouped into 6 complementary components: (1) number of species (species density S and Margalef's D-mg index), (2) evenness (E-Heip, 1/d, H', 1 - D, Delta), (3) rarity and each of the 3 other measures of taxonomy: (4) Delta*, (5) Delta(+), and (6) Lambda(+). This result showed not only that a single diversity index cannot provide a complete description of species diversity but also that - in some cases - it cannot even encapsulate a complete description of a specific diversity component. In addition, in contrast to their expected theoretical properties, some descriptors appeared to be redundant in our field study. Finally, we found that the influence ofdepth on diversity patterns is usually significant but weak and varies according to the diversity components considered. Our findings - which show that diversity descriptors may respond in different ways to habitat degradation or loss - highlight the complexity of defining priority areas of protection taking simultaneously into account the main characteristics of diversity. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		CNRS, UMR 6117, Ctr Oceanol Marseille, LMGEM, F-13009 Marseille, France; IFREMER, Lab Ecol Halieut, F-44311 Nantes 03, France; CEPRALMAR, F-34000 Montpellier, France; [Merigot, Bastien] CNRS, UMR 6117, Ctr Oceanol Marseille, LMGEM, Campus Luminy, F-13009 Marseille, France								25							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000246912800013		
J	Sanchez-Moreno, S.; Navas, A.								Nematode diversity and food web condition in heavy metal polluted soils in a river basin in southern Spain								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY				43	3			166	179		10.1016/j.ejsobi.2007.01.002			MAY-JUN 2007	2007	Effects of heavy metal pollution on the nematode community and the soil food web were assessed (June 2000 to February 2002) by using nematode community composition, functional guild abundances and diversity, maturity and soil food web indices in polluted soils in a river basin in southern Spain. Soil content of Pb, Ni, Cu and Zn, soil pH and soil texture were measured in both polluted and non-polluted areas. The composition of the nematode community and diversity indices was strongly affected by heavy metal soil content (especially by Pb, Cu and Zn). Comparing polluted and non-polluted areas, taxonomic diversity was more different between areas than functional indices. While diversity indices were negatively correlated with metal soil pollution until the last sampling date, by the end of the survey (46 months after the pollution incident), as indicated by maturity and food web indices, the functional status of the soil community was nearly recovered. Of the three kinds of indices used (diversity, maturity and soil food web descriptors), the structure index, Margalef's diversity index and the maturity index were detected as the most appropriate indicators of the effect of soil pollution on the nematode community. The usefulness of using different descriptors assessing pollutant effects on soil communities is discussed. (c) 2007 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.		CSIC, Museo Nacl Ciencias Nat, Dept Biodivers & Biol Evolut, E-28006 Madrid, Spain; Univ Calif Davis, Dept Nematol, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Sanchez-Moreno, S.] Inst Nacl Invest & Tecnol Agr & Alimentaria, Dept Protecc Vegetal, Crta Coruna,Km 7-5, E-28040 Madrid, Spain								34							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000247268100004		
J	Khan, Muhammad Rafique; Rafi, Muhammad Ather; Munir, M.; Hussain, Shoukat; Baig, Mirza Wasim; Khan, M. Waheed								Biodiversity of butterflies from districts Kotli, Mirpur and Bhimber, Azad Kashmir								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				39	1			27	34					2007	2007	The adult butterflies were collected from 7 localities of district Kotli, 10 localities of district Mirpur and 10 localities from district Bhimber throughout the year 2000 ( from Kotli) and 1999 (from Mirpur and Bhimber). A total of 16 species from Kotli, 20 species from Mirpur and 19 species from Bhimber belonging to 7 families and 30 genera were collected. Diversity was calculated by using the Shannon-Wiener's diversity index along with its equitability component, Margalef's index, Simpson's index and Nakmura's R1 index. The calculated values of diversity indices showed that from Kotli, lowest diversity was calculated from Sensah and Dongi and highest diversity was calculated from Fateh Pur, Khuiretta and Holar. From Mirpur, the lowest diversity was calculated from Khari Sharif and Mangla where as the highest diversity was calculated from Mirpur city and Islam Garh. From Bhimber, the lowest diversity was calculated from Bernala, Kot Jamel and Kadala, where as the highest diversity was calculated from Chumb, Berhing and Choki. None of the species reported to be threatened to become extinct nor any species reported to be favoured by enriched flora. The richness, evenness and abundance were found to be normal in the surveyed area.		Univ Coll Agr, Rawalakot, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan; Natl Agr Res Ctr, Insect Pest Management Inst, Islamabad, Pakistan; Azad Jammu & Kashmir Univ, Dept Comp Sci, Muzaffarabad, Pakistan; [Khan, Muhammad Rafique] Univ Coll Agr, Rawalakot, Azad Kashmir, Pakistan								6							Zoology	WOS:000245575200006		
J	Jayalakshmy, K. V.; Rao, K. Kameswara								Aspects of the biodiversity of brackish water foraminifera								ENVIRONMENTAL FORENSICS				7	4			353	367		10.1080/15275920600996370			DEC 2006	2006	Foraminiferal fauna of the Chilka lake situated between 19 degrees 25' and 19 degrees 54' N and 85 degrees 6' and 85 degrees 38' E in Orissa state on the east coast of India during different seasons was studied using Pielou's, Simpson's, Margalef' s, Shannon - Wiener's, and Heip's evenness indices of diversity. Mean diversity levels were low during the postmonsoon period ( November) when there is heavy rainfall followed by the diluting effects of the river systems of the area; however, levels were high during the premonsoon season ( March and May) due to prevalence of marine conditions in the lake. Furthermore, the evaluation of different sectors in the study area showed somewhat poor diversity within the lagoon and rich diversity in the outer channel, the fauna of which was similar to the nearshore foraminiferids of Bay of Bengal. The spatial pattern of species diversity was predictable and was related to environmental features of the areas in the lake. Regarding the spatial community structure, outer channel showed highly stable environment due to its proximity to the sea whereas northern sector showed highly fluctuating environment being away from the oceanic region and highly affected by variations in the salinity. Seasonal comparison showed postmonsoon season as the most consistent period, whereas early premonsoon was the least consistent period. Bray-Curtis group linkage cluster analysis showed that none of the clusters of foraminiferal species present during post-monsoon occurred during pre-monsoon. In contrast to this observation, approximately 30% of the species were always clustered together during early premonsoon and late premonsoon, indicating the possibility of succession of species during November. An interesting observation was that a species replacement takes place in the case of foraminiferal fauna over a seasonal cycle. This finding could be an indication of the seasonality of this community through species succession.		Natl Inst Oceanog, Reg Ctr, Cochin 682014, Kerala, India; [Jayalakshmy, K. V.] Natl Inst Oceanog, Reg Ctr, Cochin 682014, Kerala, India								5							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000242558400008		
J	Harding, Jon S.; Claassen, Koen; Evers, Niels								Can forest fragments reset physical and water quality conditions in agricultural catchments and act as refugia for forest stream invertebrates?								HYDROBIOLOGIA				568				391	402		10.1007/s10750-006-0206-0			SEP 2006	2006	Forest fragments embedded within agricultural landscapes have the potential to provide a "forest reset effect" by mitigating agricultural effects on water quality, and acting as refugia and conservation reserves for aquatic species. We investigated the ability of forest fragments to reset agricultural effects using four catchments in the South Island, New Zealand. Two catchments were dominated by agricultural activities, but each had an isolated forest fragment in the lower valley, and two catchments had continuous riparian forest along the valley floor. Riffles sampled in continuous forest were generally deeper than those in agricultural and forest fragments, and not surprisingly streams in forest fragments and continuous forest received less light than those in agricultural land. All sites had circum-neutral pH, but both conductivity and temperature were significantly lower at continuous forest sites than agricultural and forest fragment sites. Taxonomic richness, Margalef's index and numbers of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT) taxa were significantly higher in continuous forest than at forest fragment sites, but overall invertebrate densities did not differ between fragments and continuous forest. Several taxa were abundant at agricultural and forest fragment sites, but absent or at low densities in continuous forest. They included the blackfly Austrosimulium spp. and two caddisflies Pycnocentrodes sp. and Hydrobiosis parumbripennis. Conversely, the mayflies Austroclima sp. and Coloburiscus humeralis and the blepharicerid Neocurupira chiltoni were either restricted to continuous forest, or abundant in continuous forest but rare in agricultural and forest fragments. An ordination of communities separated those in agricultural and continuous forest sites, but communities at forest fragment sites were clustered among the agricultural sites. In this study forest fragments of 5-7 ha, located in the lower reaches of the catchment did not mitigate the negative upstream effects of agriculture on stream functioning. Fragment size (or riparian forest length), riparian forest width and vegetation type, and fragment location in the catchment may have critical roles in enabling forest fragments to reset the negative impacts of agriculture. Determining these characteristics of fragments has important consequences for stream remediation.		Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Christchurch 1, New Zealand; Univ Zeeland, Dept Aquat Ecotechnol, Vissingen, Netherlands; [Harding, Jon S.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 1, New Zealand								44							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000239393800032		
J	Berra, Tim M.; Petry, Paulo								Fish assemblage of Cedar Fork Creek, Ohio, unchanged for 28 years								OHIO JOURNAL OF SCIENCE				106	3			98	102					JUN 2006	2006	A 270 m section of Cedar Fork Creek, a clear, gravel-bottomed, headwater stream of the Ohio River System in north-central Ohio, was sampled 48 times from 1975-2003. During the 28 year period 32,237 individuals of 10 fish families and 44 species were collected. Eight taxa made up 86% of the total number collected. Cyprinids; (Luxilus cornutus, Campostoma anomalum, Pimepbales notatus, Semotilus atromaculatus, and Notropis buccatus) accounted for 65% of the individuals. Two darter species (Etheostoina caeruleum, E. nigrum) made up 17.4% of the total, and the white sucker, Catostomus commersoini, accounted for 3.3%. The same common species were abundant throughout the 28 years, and the same rare species were consistently present in small numbers. Species richness averaged 23 species per year. Margalef's index of diversity varied only slightly from 2.8 to 3.6 during the study indicating the constancy of species composition. Two jackknife estimators (nonparametric resampling procedures) suggested that the collections detected 97-100% of the species present. Exotic species failed to make inroads into the Cedar Fork community except for carp, Cyprinus carpio, that have been in Ohio since 1879, and brown trout, Salmo trutta, that were recently stocked by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.		Ohio State Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Organismal Biol, Mansfield, OH 44906 USA; Harvard Univ, Museum Comparat Zool, Dept Ichthyol, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA; [Berra, Tim M.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Organismal Biol, Mansfield, OH 44906 USA								2							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000239668700004		
J	Williams, VL; Witkowski, ETF; Balkwill, K								Application of diversity indices to appraise plant availability in the traditional medicinal markets of Johannesburg, South Africa								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				14	12			2971	3001		10.1007/s10531-004-0256-4			NOV 2005	2005	The lack of scientific rigour in analysing ethnobotanical surveys has prompted researchers to investigate ways of quantitatively describing their data, including the use of ecological diversity indices. There are numerous indices and measures available to describe sample diversity. Twenty-two measures of species richness, diversity and evenness were reviewed using six sets of ethnomedicinal data derived from 50 formal muti shop traders (of different ethnicities) and 100 informal street traders of traditional medicine in Johannesburg, South Africa, and a seventh data set from traders on the western boundary of the Kruger National Park, South Africa. The diversity measures were coupled with species accumulation curves to construct cumulative diversity curves used to determine the minimum viable sample size on which a diversity index should be based, and to better understand the differences in the relative diversities of the samples. Distinct differences in the relative abundance and diversity of plants sold by street traders and shop traders were evident. Species diversity and evenness was found to be higher in shops, thus resulting in a lower dominance in the sale of certain plant species compared to the street traders. A survey of an informal market should include no less than 35 research participants compared to no less than 20 for the muti shops. The use of selected indices of species richness (Margalef's), diversity (Shannon, Simpson's, Fisher's alpha, Hill's numbers) and evenness are recommended as a means of describing patterns exhibited within ethnobotanical data.		Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Williams, VL] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, PO Wits, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa								33							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000233042000009		
J	Stefanic, E; Stefanic, I; Murdoch, AJ								Response of a weed community to different management practice in field bean								ZEITSCHRIFT FUR PFLANZENKRANKHEITEN UND PFLANZENSCHUTZ-JOURNAL OF PLANT DISEASES AND PROTECTION				112	5			437	446					SEP 2005	2005	Weed control strategies for field beans were studied in North-eastern Croatia. This study focused on how different weed management practices affect weed community composition. The recommended pre-emergence herbicide application was compared to different treatments of post-emergence herbicide (broadcasted or banded over crop rows) and mechanical weed control in order to explore the response of a weed community to different management practice. Weed density data were used to compare total community densities by weed management strategies and to calculate diversity indices (Shannon's H', Shannon's E and Margalef's D-MG). Data were analyzed using ANOVA and multivariate technique. Weed community structure was generally similar in the post-emergence herbicide treatments, which were dominated by a few species that had high relative abundance values, while most of the species were of lower abundance. Notable fluctuations in weed communities corresponded with variation in weather patterns and management practice.		JJ Strossmayer Univ, Dept Crop Protect, Osijek 31000, Croatia; JJ Strossmayer Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Econ, Osijek 31000, Croatia; Univ Reading, Dept Agr, Reading RG6 6AR, Berks, England; [Stefanic, E] JJ Strossmayer Univ, Dept Crop Protect, Trg Svetog Trojstva 3, Osijek 31000, Croatia								3							Plant Sciences	WOS:000234448500003		
J	Richardson, BA; Richardson, MJ; Soto-Adames, FN								Separating the effects of forest type and elevation on the diversity of litter invertebrate communities in a humid tropical forest in Puerto Rico								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY				74	5			926	936		10.1111/j.1365-2656.2005.00990.x			SEP 2005	2005	1. The primary effects of climatic conditions on invertebrate litter communities, and the secondary effects of different forest types, were distinguished by using the sierra palm as a control in a natural experiment along an elevational gradient in the Luquillo Mountains. These mountains have three well-defined forest types along the gradient, with the palm occurring as stands within each forest. 2. Palm litter samples were richer in nutrients, particularly phosphorus, than nonpalm litter, significantly so at higher elevations where leaching would have been expected. In nonpalm litter, mineral concentrations were significantly lower at higher elevations. 3. Animal abundance mirrored the pattern of mineral amounts and declined significantly in mid- and high-altitude forests, but did not decline with increasing elevation in palm stands. A pulse of post-hurricane litterfall was reflected in the high abundance of Coleoptera and Isoptera the following year. 4. The species richness of communities (Margalef's index) declined with increasing elevation in nonpalm forest litter, but was remarkably similar in palm litter at all elevations. 5. Palm litter communities were more similar to each other (Sorensen's index) than nonpalm communities, which became less similar with increasing elevation. 6. The differences observed from the lower slopes to the summits, in animal abundance, species richness and the uniformity of communities, are better explained by the contribution of forest composition to the chemical and physical nature of litter and forest heterogeneity, rather than to direct effects of temperature and rainfall differences.		Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [Richardson, BA] 165 Braid Rd, Edinburgh EH10 6JE, Midlothian, Scotland								55							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000231612100013		
J	Deutsch, B; Paulian, M; Thierry, D; Canard, M								Quantifying biodiversity in ecosystems with green lacewing assemblages								AGRONOMY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT				25	3			337	343		10.1051/agro:2005036			JUL-SEP 2005	2005	Green lacewings are pertinent bio-indicators of an ecosystem's health. An example for detecting temporal changes in crop field biodiversity over a short period by sampling chrysopids is given. Light-trapping collections over ten years near Bucharest ( Romania) implied changes in the species assemblages. The main species present were members of the Chrysoperla carnea-complex. They increased from 38 to 72% of the total Chrysopidae in samples. The faunistic richness (Margalef's index) only decreased by about 9% of its initial value. Shannon's diversity and Hurlbert's equitability indices showed a high level of biodiversity for an agri-environment. Nevertheless, they decreased significantly by about 45% over time, attesting to a loss in biodiversity. Statistical analysis by linear and logistic regressions shows that the progressive dominance of the common green lacewings is realistic, and constitutes indication of change in crop field biodiversity.		Univ Catholique Ouest, IRFA, Ctr Etude & Rech Ecosyst Aquat, F-49000 Angers, France; Univ Catholique Ouest, Inst Appl Math, F-49000 Angers, France; Inst Cercetari Pentru Protectia Plantelor, Bucharest 77592, Romania; [Thierry, D] Univ Catholique Ouest, IRFA, Ctr Etude & Rech Ecosyst Aquat, 44 Rue Rabelais, F-49000 Angers, France								3							Agronomy; Green & Sustainable Science & Technology	WOS:000231623000001		
J	Marn-Guirao, L; Cesar, A; Marn, A; Lloret, J; Vita, R								Establishing the ecological quality status of soft-bottom mining-impacted coastal water bodies in the scope of the Water Framework Directive								MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN				50	4			374	387		10.1016/j.marpolbul.2004.11.019			APR 2005	2005	The aim of the present study was to check the usefulness of the benthic biotic indices proposed for application in the European water framework directive (WFD 2000/60/EC) for the ecological quality classification of coastal water bodies, together with some other benthic methodologies used in different countries of the world. The different approaches were applied in two marine ecosystems affected by the same heavy metal contamination source, coastal waters off Portman and the Mar Menor coastal lagoon, both in SE Spain. Two marine biotic indices proposed for application in the Directive (AMBI and BENTIX) were used, together with community descriptors (abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity, Margalef's species richness, Pielou's evenness and Simpson's Dominance), the relative benthic index (RBI) and the abundance-biomass comparison method (ABC). Water-sediment interface toxicity bioassays using sea urchin embryos and sediment metal analysis served to check the classifications obtained. The classical community descriptors pointed to a progressive variation in benthic communities along the metal contamination gradient of Portman, but, they did not correctly characterize the environmental status of the lagoon stations. Although the RBI was the index that best classified the sites according to their degree of pollution, the selection of indicator species can bias the results. Since the AMBI, the BENTIX and the ABC method are based on the pollution resulting from organic enrichment, their application in the case of purely toxic pollution may not be successful, as was found to be the case in these two mining-polluted ecosystems. Therefore, the development of new indicator lists according to the type of pollutant may serve to improve the results obtained with organic enrichment-based indices when studying other kinds of disturbance. Finally, we found the toxicity tests to be useful tools for the environmental assessment of aquatic ecosystems, and recommend their inclusion in the WFD. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain; Univ Santa Cecilia, Dept Ecotoxicol, BR-11045907 Santos, SP, Brazil; Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain								77							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000228964500013		
J	Uysal, Z; Murina, GVV								Monthly changes in the composition and abundance of meroplankton and pelagic polychaetes of the Cilician basin shelf waters (eastern Mediterranean)								ISRAEL JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				51	3			219	236		10.1560/A5Q3-JTG4-VUA4-NNYE			2005	2005	Taxonomic composition of the meroplankton and the pelagic polychaetes of the Cilician basin shelf waters was investigated for the first time. Analysis of monthly net samples shows that the meroplankton and the pelagic polychaetes of the region are represented under 5 phyla, 10 classes, and 34 families. Pelagic nectochaete larvae of the family Spionidae (Polychaeta) and zoeas of family Grapsidae (Decapoda) were the dominating groups throughout the year. Typical stenohaline taxa formed by classes of Enteropneusta, Ophiuroidea, Asteroidea, Echinoidea, and Holothuroidea were also observed. The predominance of the decapod larvae was a distinguishing feature of the winter period. Diversity was highest during the spring (Margalef's Index d = 4.3, 5.4, and 5.6 for March, April, and May, respectively) and lowest during August (d = 1.9) and November (d = 2.3). Results of multivariate analysis (Multi-Dimensional Scaling) revealed a distinct summer population that varied greatly from the rest of the periods. Temperature rather than salinity was found to be more effective in controlling the abundance and diversity in the region.		Middle E Tech Univ, Inst Marine Sci, TR-33731 Erdemli, Turkey; Natl Acad Sci, Inst Biol So Seas, UA-335011 Sevastopol, Ukraine; [Uysal, Z] Middle E Tech Univ, Inst Marine Sci, PB 28, TR-33731 Erdemli, Turkey								4							Zoology	WOS:000237938500005		
J	Antoniadou, C; Nicolaidou, A; Chintiroglou, C								Polychaetes associated with the sciaphilic alga community in the northern Aegean Sea: spatial and temporal variability								HELGOLAND MARINE RESEARCH				58	3			168	182		10.1007/s10152-004-0182-6			OCT 2004	2004	Polychaete biodiversity has received little attention despite its importance in biomonitoring. This study describes polychaete diversity, and its spatial and temporal variability in infralittoral, hard substrate assemblages. Seven stations were chosen in the central area of the northern Aegean Sea. At each station, one to three depth levels were set (15, 30 and 40 m). Five replicates were collected by scuba diving with a quadrat sampler (400 cm(2)) from each station and depth level during summer for the spatial analysis, and seasonally for the study of temporal changes. Common biocoenotic methods were employed (estimation of numerical abundance, mean dominance, frequency, Margalef's richness, Shannon-Weaver index and Pielou's evenness). A total of 5,494 individuals, belonging to 79 species, were counted and classified. Diversity indices were always high. Clustering and multidimensional scaling techniques indicated a high heterogeneity of the stations, although these were all characterized by the sciaphilic alga community. A clear seasonal pattern was not detectable. Summer and autumn samples discriminate, while winter and spring form an even group. The abundance/biomass comparison indicated a dominance of k-strategy patterns, characteristic of stable communities.		Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Zool, Sch Biol, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece; Univ Athens, Zool Lab, Athens 15784, Greece; [Chintiroglou, C] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Zool, Sch Biol, POB 134, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece								18							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000224617400005		
J	Arnaldos, MI; Romera, E; Presa, JJ; Luna, A; Garca, MD								Studies on seasonal arthropod succession on carrion in the southeastern Iberian Peninsula								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF LEGAL MEDICINE				118	4			197	205		10.1007/s00414-004-0446-3			AUG 2004	2004	A global study of the sarcosaprophagous community that occurs in the southeastern Iberian Peninsula during all four seasons is made for the first time, and its diversity is described with reference to biological indices. A total of 18,179 adults and, additionally, a number of preimaginal states were collected. The results for the main arthropod groups, and their diversity are discussed in relation to the season and decompositional stages. The results provide an extensive inventory of carrion-associated arthropods. An association between decomposition stages and more representative arthropod groups is established. With respect to the biological indices applied, Margalef's index shows that the diversity of the community increases as the state of decomposition advances, while Sorenson's quantitative index shows that the greatest similarities are between spring and summer on the one hand, and fall and winter, on the other.		Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Zool, E-30100 Murcia, Spain; Univ Murcia, Fac Med, E-30100 Murcia, Spain; Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Zool, E-30100 Murcia, Spain				1st Meeting of the European-Association-of-Forensic-Entomologists	APR, 2003	European Assoc Forens Entomologists	Frankfurt, GERMANY	79							Medicine, Legal	WOS:000222390300005		
J	Chellappa, NT; Costa, MAM								Dominant and co-existing species of Cyanobacteria from a Eutrophicated reservoir of Rio Grande do Norte State, Brazil								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				24				S3	S10		10.1016/S1146-609X(03)00005-5			MAY 2003	2003	This paper reports on the cyanobacterial population, its ecology, dominance and coexistence characteristics in one annual cycle of a eutrophicated Gargalheiras reservoir (Marechal Dutra) of Acari, in the state of Rio Grande do Norte of Brazil. The study was conducted between November 1999 and May 2000, which included the dryand wet seasons. It is an old, man-made impounded water reservoir. The methodology included the collection of phytoplankton samples from the surface to the bottom in a fixed station to include four vertical profiles and to analyse them for physico-chemical and algological characteristics. Ecological indices, such as Shannon-Weaver for species diversity, Margalef's species richness and Pielou's evenness were calculated. The results reveal the characteristics of the eutrophic to the hyper trophic state for the Gargalheiras reservoir with the dominance of Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii, Raphidiopsis curvata, Microcystis aeroginosa and Oscillatoria sp during the dry period. Cages were suspended to culture Amazonian fish, Tambaqui, at the beginning of the wet period close to the sampling stations in the reservoir and treated for point source nutrient loading and disturbance factor. This localised disturbance stimulated the growth of Chlorophyceae species, which co-existed along with the species of cyanobacteria to finally dominate; coinciding with the stability of monsoon rain in May. The conclusion drawn from the study period revealed that the reservoir with high inorganic nutrients had reduced transparency, anoxic hypolimnion, elevated levels of electrical conductivity and the dominance of cyanobacteria during the dry period and the dominance of chlorophyceae in the wet period. (C) 2003 Editions scientifiques et medicales Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.		Univ Fed Rio Grande Norte, Dept Oceanog & Limnol, BR-59012340 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Chellappa, NT] Univ Fed Rio Grande Norte, Dept Oceanog & Limnol, BR-59012340 Natal, RN, Brazil				International Plankton Symposium	SEP, 2001		PORTUGAL	41							Ecology	WOS:000183900400002		
J	Novelo-Gutirrez, R; Gmez-Anaya, JA; Arce-Prez, R								Community structure of odonata larvae in two streams in Zimapan, Hidalgo, Mexico								ODONATOLOGICA				31	3			273	286					SEP 1 2002	2002	Community structure of odon. larvae was investigated at El Saucillo (ES) and San Francisco (SF) streams, from August 1995 to July 1996. Species richness (S), species composition, Margalef's richness index (R), Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (H'), Hill's evenness index (E), and rareness (Rs) were used to describe and compare the communities. Annual variation of the indices was examined within and among streams. Streams were significantly different in terms of physical/chemical variables, and faunistic similarity between the communities was quite low (37%). Mean larval density was highest at ES, but the remaining parameters were highest at SF. Global richness was 31 spp. and some spp. such as Hetaerina americana, Enallagma civile, Anax junius, Erpetogomphus elaps, Dythemis nigrescens, Aeshna multicolor, A. dugesi, Erythemis plebeja and the majority of Argia spp. were only found at SF. More abundant spp. at SF were Pseudoleon superbus, Telebasis salva, Libellula saturata and Enallagma praevarum, while those more abundant at ES were Paltothemis lineatipes and Argia anceps.		Inst Ecol, Dept Entomol, Xalapa 91000, Veracruz, Mexico; [Novelo-Gutirrez, R] Inst Ecol, Dept Entomol, Xalapa 91000, Veracruz, Mexico								4							Entomology	WOS:000177518700003		
J	Chemello, R; Milazzo, M								Effect of algal architecture on associated fauna: some evidence from phytal molluscs								MARINE BIOLOGY				140	5			981	990		10.1007/s00227-002-0777-x			MAY 2002	2002	In the southern Mediterranean Sea, replicate samples of six common upper-infralittoral algae (Cystoseira barbatula, Cystoseira spinosa, Sargassum vulgare, Halopteris scoparia, Dictyota fasciola, and Dictyota dichotoma) were collected with the major goal of investigating the composition and structure of molluscan assemblages between the algal species. In order to measure the habitat architecture of the six algal species and relate this to the molluscan assemblages, several structural attributes were calculated on each individual plant. There were differences in architectural attributes between the six algal species, with data recorded for S. vulgare and H. scoparia more similar to data for C. barbatula and C. spinosa (which grouped closely), than for the two species belonging to the genus Dictyota, which had a less complex structure. A total of 1,914 specimens and 57 species of molluscs were found on the collected algae. The abundance and diversity of the molluscan assemblages were significantly different between different macroalgae. In general S. vulgare, C. barbatula and C. spinosa supported a higher abundance, greater number of species, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and Margalef's index than the remaining three algal species. Both multivariate analyses (i.e. cluster and multidimensional scaling) and a posteriori tests (Student-Neuman-Keuls' test) demonstrated that samples collected on D. dichotoma were well separated, reflecting the lowest values of abundance and diversity. The molluscan assemblage data were also correlated to the attributes of algal architecture revealing that the combination of degree of branching, algal width and the log of the stem width provides a good explanation for molluscan structure. Differences in the molluscan assemblages of these six common Mediterranean algae can be attributed to different algal architectures, and, consequently, these could be related to the supposed variations in food availability and predation rate.		Univ Palermo, Dipartimento Biol Anim, I-90123 Palermo, Italy; [Chemello, R] Univ Palermo, Dipartimento Biol Anim, Via Archirafi 18, I-90123 Palermo, Italy								176							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000176211500010		
J	Felix, J; Owen, MDK								Weed seedbank dynamics in post conservation reserve program land								WEED SCIENCE				49	6			780	787		10.1614/0043-1745(2001)049[0780:WSDIPC]2.0.CO;2			NOV-DEC 2001	2001	The influence of tillage, crop rotation, and weed management regimes on the weed seedbank in land previously under the conservation reserve program (CRP) for 8 yr was determined from 1994 through 1997 The study was a split-plot design with four replications, two tillage systems, two crop rotations, and three weed management treatments. Eleven weed species were recorded in 1994 and 1995, and 13 in 1996 and 1997. The weed seedbank was dominated by broadleaf species. In 1994, the first year after CRP, the seed population density in the top 15 cm of the soil profile was 51,480 seeds m(-2), of which 60 and 20% were pigweed and common lambsquarters. The population density of pipweed seeds in the seedbank increased over time and reached 51,670 seeds m(-2) in 1996. In contrast, the seed population density for foxtail species was only 417 seeds m(-2) in 1994, but it increased to 7,820 seeds m(-2) in 1997. The large increase in foxtail species seed population density in the 4-yr period was mainly in the no-herbicide weed management treatment. The weed seedbank was reduced similarly by band and broadcast herbicide treatments. Tillage and crop rotation did not influence the weed seedbank or Shannon's diversity index, nor did they interact with the weed management treatments in any of the years. The weed seedbank population density varied with the years and time of soil sampling. Weed seed population densities tended to be greater in the fall but declined significantly by time of the spring sampling. The no-herbicide treatment had a more diverse weed seedbank compared with band and broadcast herbicide weed management treatments. An average of one grass and three broadleaf weed species were identified in the three weed management treatments. Band and broadcast herbicide treatments reduced the weed seedbank Population density but did not affect the number of broadleaf weed species observed.		Ohio State Univ, Ohio Agr Res & Dev Ctr, Dept Hort & Crop Sci, Wooster, OH 44691 USA; Iowa State Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Agron, Ames, IA 50011 USA; [Felix, J] Ohio State Univ, Ohio Agr Res & Dev Ctr, Dept Hort & Crop Sci, Wooster, OH 44691 USA								10							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000175242300013		
J	Danilov, RA; Ekelund, NGA								Comparative studies on the usefulness of seven ecological indices for the marine coastal monitoring close to the shore on the Swedish East coast								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				66	3			265	279		10.1023/A:1006364317956			FEB 2001	2001	The simultaneous behaviour of seven ecological indices (Hurlbert's, Margalef's, Menhinick's, Shannon's, species number, Jaccard's and saprobic index) was studied based on phytoplankton data close to the shore on the East coast of Sweden during the summer 1998. The sampling stations had a similar eutrophication level and were located in bays. Standard phytoplankton databases were used in calculating the indices, which were later compared using cluster analysis. Hurlbert's, Margalef's, Menhinick's, Shannon's and species number indices, as measure of community diversity, produced similar trends which often differed from those based on Jaccard's index of similarity. However, the simultaneous use of these indices was found meaningful as a possible part of the monitoring close to the shore. The application of a saprobic index lead to erroneous conclusions in the studied case.		Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Appl Sci, Harnosand, Sweden; [Danilov, RA] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Appl Sci, Harnosand, Sweden								18							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000166500700004		
J	Stefanic, E; Stefanic, I; Murdoch, AJ			BCPC; BCPC					Impact of different weed management practices on the diversity of weed communities in field bean production								BCPC CONFERENCE - WEEDS 2001, VOLS 1 AND 2								255	260					2001	2001	Integrated weed management depends on predicting and managing the response of weed communities to weed control. The diversity of weed communities determines the strategies required and changes in weed species may indicate weed management problems. Weed control strategies for field beans were studied in North-Eastern Croatia in 1999 and 2000. The recommended pre-emergence application was compared with different rates of post-emergence herbicide and mechanical weed control. In each plot, the weeds present in four 50x50 cm quadrants were clipped, sorted by species and counted. Weed density data were used to compare total community densities by weed management strategies and to calculate diversity indices (Shannons H, Shannon's E and Margalef"s DMG indices), Influences of treatments on diversity were not consistent, since weed floras differed between sites and since some of the species responded inconsistently to the weed management practices investigated, Moreover, unfavourable climatic conditions during the study (very wet in 1999, and extremely dry in 2000) probably mask stronger differences in weed community composition. Weed community structure was generally similar on the post-emergence herbicide treatments, which were dominated by a few species that had high relative frequency values, while most of the species were of lower frequency. Notable fluctuations in weed species diversity indices corresponded with variation in weather patterns and management practice.		J J Strossmayer Univ, Fac Agr, HR-31000 Osijek, Croatia; [Stefanic, E] J J Strossmayer Univ, Fac Agr, Trg Svetog Trojstva 3, HR-31000 Osijek, Croatia				BCPC International Conference on Weeds	NOV 12-15, 2001	British Crop Protect Council	BRIGHTON, ENGLAND	1							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000175297500036		
J	Danilov, RA; Ekelund, NGA								Effects of autumnal stratification on phytoplankton communities in Lake Solumsjo, Sweden: Application of diversity indices and multivariate methods								BIOLOGIA				55	4			357	362					AUG 2000	2000	Effects of autumnal stratification on phytoplankton communities at different depths were studied in Lake Solumsjo, NE Sweden. Species number, SHANNON-WEAVER's, MARGALEF's and MENHINICK's indices as well as cluster analyses using presence-absence with abundance matrices were applied. All diversity indices used clearly indicated higher diversity in epilimnion compared to that in hypolimnion. This pattern can be explained by sole dominance of Trachelomonas volvocinopsis under predominantly anoxic conditions and high concentrations of iron and manganese below the thermal gradient. Stratification disappeared between September 29 and October 4, thus leading to homogenisation of water column and similar phytoplankton communities at all depths. Cluster analyses using presence-absence with abundance matrices turned out to be a powerful tool when studying temporal changes in phytoplankton communities as a result of stratification patterns. Two distinct clusters at depths of 0, 2 and 10 m were clearly separated: one containing algal communities during stratification and one containing algal communities after the thermal gradient disappeared. At the depth of 5 m more homogeny between phytoplankton communities under stratified and mixed conditions was observed.		Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Appl Sci, S-87188 Harnosand, Sweden; [Danilov, RA] Mid Sweden Univ, Dept Appl Sci, S-87188 Harnosand, Sweden								1							Biology	WOS:000089732200006		
J	Kitsiou, D; Karydis, M								Categorical mapping of marine eutrophication based on ecological indices								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				255	1-3			113	127		10.1016/S0048-9697(00)00457-5			JUN 8 2000	2000	The present work is concerned with the development of methodological procedures for studying the spatial distribution of eutrophication in the marine environment. Seven ecological indices (S, number of phytoplankton species; N, total number of individuals; D-Mg, Margalef's index; D-Mn, Menhinick's index; D-Od, Odum's species per thousand individuals; H', Shannon's Diversity index; E, Evenness index), based on phytoplankton community data collected from Saronicos Gulf, Greece were used for describing the eutrophication state of the sea environment. A representation of the spatial distribution for each ecological index was developed using the Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW) interpolation method. A eutrophication scale for each index was also developed for indicating four different trophic levels in the marine environment (eutrophic, upper-mesotrophic, lower-mesotrophic, oligotrophic); categorization of the interpolated values of each index resulted in a clear illustration of these trophic levels on seven thematic maps. Two methodological procedures were finally applied for synthesizing the information of these thematic maps. The purpose was the development of a final map illustrating the spatial distribution of eutrophication in the study area. The first procedure was based on the integration of unsupervised and supervised classification methods, widely used in the field of remote sensing, while the second one on the overlay technique, simply carried out within the frame of a Geographical Information System (GIS). The hybrid unsupervised/supervised classification method can assess the optimal number of classes in which data values from simultaneously considered parameters could be allocated, while the overlay technique is an additive procedure not taking into account existing trends in the dataset. The advantages and disadvantages of each procedure are further discussed. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ Aegean, Dept Environm Studies, Aquat Ecosyst Lab, Mytilini 81100, Greece; [Kitsiou, D] Univ Perpignan, Ctr Format & Rech Environm Marin, CEFREM, 52 Ave Villeneuve, F-66860 Perpignan, France								34							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000087746100010		
J	Norris, Kimberly C.								Quantifying change through time in spider assemblages: sampling methods, indices and sources of error								JOURNAL OF INSECT CONSERVATION				3	4			309	325		10.1023/A:1009600813111			DEC 1999	1999	Using a sample dataset from six sites in the Southern Appalachian mountains in the United States, I evaluate the usefulness of diversity indices and similarity/difference indices for monitoring the changes in spider (Order Araneae) assemblages through time. The Shannon index, Brillouin index, Simpson's index and Margalef's index were correlated with each other and were able to detect successional changes in two old clear-cuts as well as disturbance to a Beech gap forest possibly due to Beech Bark Disease. Turnover, Bray-Curtis similarity, and Morisita-Horn similarity also detected successional differences between the forest types and indicated the short-term and long-term changes in a mature forest stand. Seasonal changes (early to late summer) in spider communities were consistently higher than yearly changes. I identify and discuss the implications of various sources of error that will adversely affect the accuracy and efficiency of a monitoring protocol: sensitivity of indices to sample size, sampler bias, inclusion of juveniles, taxonomic uncertainty and stochastic sampling effects. Although gross trends are still apparent in the sample data regardless of these errors, more subtle changes may be obscured. It is these subtle trends which may be more useful to managers attempting to identify disturbance before irreversible damage occurs.		Univ Tennessee, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Norris, Kimberly C.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								29							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000208368900008		
J	van Heezik, Y; Seddon, PJ								Effects of season and habitat on bird abundance and diversity in a steppe desert, northern Saudi Arabia								JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS				43	3			301	317		10.1006/jare.1999.0537			NOV 1999	1999	Between 1992 and 1996 the avifauna of the harrat (basalt boulder field) biotope was quantitatively surveyed using belt transects during all seasons and in four habitats (wadi, harrat, almost bare, and sparsely vegetated gravel plains) within the Harrat al-Harrah protected area in northern Saudi Arabia. Twenty species, mostly larks and wheatears, are regularly breeding residents, with five species breeding occasionally. Abundance and diversity increased in spring and late summer, coinciding with the passage of migrants. The total number of species recorded was 131. Most (70%) resident and non-resident birds were counted in wadis, which contain the greatest density of vegetation, but no trees or high shrubs. Species richness (Margalef's index) and diversity (log series alpha) were also highest in wadis. During a season when relatively abundant rainfalls were evenly distributed throughout the season, bird density was marginally higher than in a year of comparatively poor rainfall, although variation around both figures was large. Comparisons with other areas in Saudi Arabia indicate that increased aridity is associated with fewer resident species, but that sites are used by similar numbers of migrant species. The structural complexity of vegetation, including the presence of trees and grasses, is likely to be the principal factor influencing avifaunal abundance within arid areas. (C) 1999 Academic Press.		Natl Commiss Wildlife Conservat & Dev, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, Taif, Saudi Arabia; [van Heezik, Y] Natl Commiss Wildlife Conservat & Dev, Natl Wildlife Res Ctr, POB 1086, Taif, Saudi Arabia								9							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000083885300008		
J	Doucet, C; Weaver, SE; Hamill, AS; Zhang, JH								Separating the effects of crop rotation from weed management on weed density and diversity								WEED SCIENCE				47	6			729	735		10.1017/S0043174500091402			NOV-DEC 1999	1999	Crop rotation is thought to reduce weed density and maintain species diversity, thus preventing the domination of a few problem weeds. Because cropping sequence dictates other agricultural management practices, variations in weed populations between cropping systems may be the direct result of crop rotation, the result of different weed management practices associated with crop rotation, or both. Studies that fail to separate the effects of crop rotation from weed management may generate misleading results. A 10-yr crop rotation study was undertaken to study the dynamics of the standing weed vegetation in Zea mays L., Glycine max L., and Triticum aestivum L. The present paper compared total weed density and diversity between monocultures and rotations under three levels of weed management. Weed management accounted for 37.9% of the variation in total weed density, whereas crop rotation accounted for only 5.5%. Weed density varied between monocultures and rotations in plots where herbicides were applied. The effectiveness of rotations in reducing weed density was dependent: upon the crop. Margalef's species richness index (D-MG), a measure of diversity, varied among weed management strategies, with 38.4% of the variance attributed to this factor. In the 10th year, when all plots were sown with Z. mays, few cumulative effects of crop rotation were apparent, with two exceptions. In weedy and herbicide-treated plots, weed density was higher on plots cropped with Z. mays the previous year. Also, under these weed management treatments, including a cereal in the crop rotation reduced weed density. Crop rotation, when used in combination with herbicides, provides additional weed control and is therefore an effective tool in integrated weed management.		Agr & Agri Food Canada, Greenhouse & Proc Crops Res Ctr, Harrow, ON N0R 1G0, Canada; Univ Minnesota, Dept Agron & Plant Genet, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Weaver, SE] Agr & Agri Food Canada, Greenhouse & Proc Crops Res Ctr, Harrow, ON N0R 1G0, Canada								115							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000085139000017		
J	Safranyik, L; Shore, TL; Linton, DA								Attack by bark beetles (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) following spacing of mature lodgepole fine (Pinaceae) stands								CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST				131	5			671	685		10.4039/Ent131671-5			SEP-OCT 1999	1999	Variation in bark beetle attack following spacing of mature lodgepole pine stands in the East Kootenays of British Columbia was analyzed in relation to stand location (site), spacing treatment, and harvesting injury. Observations were made on three sites, each having three treatments: 4 x 4 m spacing, 5 x 5 m spacing, and untreated control. There was no statistically significant difference in the numbers of attacked trees among sites or treatments. However, in the spaced plots 94.3% of the attacked trees sustained harvesting injury or were located adjacent to skid trails. Dendroctonus valens LeConte was the dominant species attacking trees on the two drier sites, and Dendroctonus murrayanae Hopkins was the dominant species on the third site. There was no statistically significant variation in the percentage of attacked stumps among sites or spacing treatments. On average, 80.7% of the stumps were attacked; attacked stumps had larger diameters than unattacked stumps. Thirteen species of bark beetles were found attacking stumps. Hylurgops porosus LeConte was the most numerous species at all three sites. Based on the fit of the Michaelis-Menten equations to species accumulation curves, an estimated 76-90% of the number of species attacking stumps at the three sites were observed in bark samples. Margalef's index of diversity for the two drier sites (Cranbrook = 1.15, Parson 1.13) was nearly identical and higher than at the moist site (Elkford = 0.89). Pairs of sites had five to six species in common, and the Sorensen coefficient of similarity ranged from 0.52 to 0.71, indicating moderate similarity in species composition. The abundance versus species rank relationship was fitted by three models: the MacArthur broken stick model, the geometric series, and the Zeta distribution. The latter gave good fit to data from two sites, but none of the fitted models gave satisfactory fit to data from the third site, mainly because of the high abundance of the second ranked species (Orthotomicus caelatus Eichhoff). Out results indicated that stand characteristics affected species assemblages and abundances of bark beetle species that attacked stumps. Management practices that minimize injury to trees during the spacing operations are emphasized to reduce attack by bark beetles.		Canadian Forest Serv, Nat Resources Canada, Victoria, BC V8Z 1M5, Canada; [Safranyik, L] Canadian Forest Serv, Nat Resources Canada, 506 W Burnside Rd, Victoria, BC V8Z 1M5, Canada								11							Entomology	WOS:000082422400009		
J	Markova, E; Ljubenova, E								Influence of the synthetic pyrethroid insecticide alpha-cypermethrin on the structure of the syrphid coenosis (Syrphidae, Diptera) in a potato ecosystem								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ENTOMOLOGY				122	8			469	473		10.1111/j.1439-0418.1998.tb01529.x			NOV 1998	1998	The influence of the synthetic pyrethroid insecticide alpha-cypermethrin on the structure of syrphid coenosis was assessed in a field experiment. A significant influence on the number of species was noticed and a lesser influence upon the species composition of the syrphid coenosis. The effect of the chemical mixture on the population density of the distinct species differed in intensity but only on the first day could the effect of the insecticide be shown with regard to number complex before and after treatment. The total average density, defined as the result of all densities of the distinct species of syrphid flies was most highly affected on the first day after the treatment. At that time the estimated density was half than the level before the application of the insecticide. The effect of the insecticide treatment was manifested upon both the composition of complexes of dominant species and the general dominant structure of the syrphid coenosis. The parameters examined for species structure: Simpson's index of concentration of domination (D), Shannon-Weaver's index of total diversity ((H) over bar) and Margalef's index of species abundance (d) showed that the insecticide treatment exerts an unfavourable but not strong influence upon the syrphid coenosis.		Univ Sofia, Dept Ecol, Fac Biol, Sofia 1421, Bulgaria; [Markova, E] Univ Sofia, Dept Ecol, Fac Biol, 8 Dragan Tsankov Blvd, Sofia 1421, Bulgaria								2							Entomology	WOS:000077193900009		
J	Charvet, S; Kosmala, A; Statzner, B								Biomonitoring through biological traits of benthic macroinvertebrates: perspectives for a general tool in stream management								ARCHIV FUR HYDROBIOLOGIE				142	4			415	432					JUL 1998	1998	Although benthic stream macroinvertebrates have been widely used in biomonitoring, further developments towards more general biomonitoring tools are timely. Therefore, we compared traditional ways of biomonitoring such as diversity, biotic indices and community structure with a new approach using biological traits such as reproduction, life duration, and feeding habits. These approaches were applied to a typical biomonitoring scenario, i.e. for two sites being upstream and downstream of the effluent from a waste water treatment plant. Physico-chemical variables did not discriminate between upstream and downstream site. Among eight tested biological indices, only Margalef's and Shannon's index and the French Biotic Index "indice biologique global normalise" (IBGN) significantly separated the upstream from the downstream site. However, biomonitoring through these three indices depended significantly on the sampling effort, which was not the case for the community structure or biological traits. Community structure in terms of taxa abundances separated the upstream from the downstream site (17.9% of discrimination). Biological traits weighted by taxa abundances better separated the upstream from the downstream site (23.1% of discrimination). The biological traits showed that the functional structure at the upstream site was characteristic for organisms using the strategy of resilience in more variable but less adverse environments. In contrast, the functional structure observed at the downstream site was characteristic for organisms using the strategy of resistance in less variable but more adverse environments. Thus, the functional approach to indicate pollution effects in streams through biological traits may provide a tool for future stream management which is robust, general and based on current concepts of ecological theory.		Cemagref, Lab DSA, F-69336 Lyon 09, France; Cemagref, Lab Ecotoxicol, F-69336 Lyon, France; Univ Lyon 1, CNRS, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Charvet, S] Cemagref, Lab DSA, 3 Bis Quai Chauveau, F-69336 Lyon 09, France								92							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000075353500002		
J	Tsirtsis, G; Karydis, M								Evaluation of phytoplankton community indices for detecting eutrophic trends in the marine environment								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				50	3			255	269		10.1023/A:1005883015373			MAY 1998	1998	Twenty two diversity, evenness and dominance indices based on phytoplankton community structure were examined for their sensitivity to assess eutrophic conditions. Data from two sampling sites, one eutrophic and one oligotrophic, were used as reference data-sets for evaluating the indices. McNaughton's dominance index, cell number, species number (Hill's NO), Kothe's species deficit, Odum's species per thousand individuals and Evenness E2, E3 seemed to be the most sensitive indices for discriminating between eutrophic and oligotrophic conditions. A case study was also performed using a data-set from ten stations spaced along the coastal area of the city of Rhodes, Aegean Sea, Greece to find out which of the indices were appropriate to assess different levels of eutrophication. Kothe's species deficit, Hill's NO (species number), Margalef's and Gleasons indices have shown the highest sensitivity to resolve oligotrophic, mesotrophic and eutrophic conditions.		Univ Aegean, Dept Environm Studies, Aquat Ecosyst Lab, Mitilini 81100, Greece; [Tsirtsis, G] Univ Aegean, Dept Environm Studies, Aquat Ecosyst Lab, Mitilini 81100, Greece								40							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000073398400005		
J	Drake, P; Arias, AM								The effect of aquaculture practices on the benthic macroinvertebrate community of a lagoon system in the Bay of Cadiz (southwestern Spain)								ESTUARIES				20	4			677	688		10.2307/1352243			DEC 1997	1997	Monthly quantitative Ekman-Birge grab sampling was used to characterize and compare the composition and structure of the benthic macroinvertebrate community inhabiting semi-enclosed polyculture lagoons (SPL) (three sampling sites) and enclosed monoculture ponds (EMP) (two sampling sites) of a lagoonal system of the Bay of Cadiz. The two areas differed considerably in habitat characteristics and aquaculture management. The SPL area was characterized by low rates of water exchange, low fish densities, and the presence of a macroalgal cover. In the EMP area, there was a complete exchange of water daily (by pumping) and a supply of food pellets, density of fish was high, and no vegetative cover was present, There were considerable differences in species composition between habitats with different culture methods: 11 of the 21 most abundant species were exclusive to one or the other. Several epibenthic species were abundant in the polyculture lagoon but were low in density or were absent in monoculture ponds. Some infaunal species, on the other hand, were more abundant in the monoculture ponds. Univariate measures of community structure (abundance and biomass, Margalef's species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and Pielou's evenness indices) did not indicate significant differences between the SPL and EMP areas. Conversely, the abundance-biomass comparison (ABC) method indicated that, on average, the macrobenthic community was moderately disturbed in the SPL and undisturbed in the EMP areas. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) ordination and hierarchical cluster analysis (Bray-Curtis similarity measure) revealed the occurrence of two main benthic assemblages that corresponded to the aquaculture methods. The different rates of water exchange for the two aquaculture practices seem to have contributed to differences in the composition and structure of the benthic communities.		CSIC, Inst Ciencias Marinas Andalucia, Cadiz 11510, Spain; [Drake, P] CSIC, Inst Ciencias Marinas Andalucia, Cadiz 11510, Spain								41							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000071147300002		
J	Stevenson, FC; Legere, A; Simard, RR; Angers, DA; Pageau, D; Lafond, J								Weed species diversity in spring barley varies with crop rotation and tillage, but not with nutrient source								WEED SCIENCE				45	6			798	806		10.1017/S0043174500088998			NOV-DEC 1997	1997	The development of sustainable farming systems depends on our ability to predict and manage the response of weed communities to changes in cropping practices. A study was established at Normandin, Quebec, Canada, to investigate the influence of liquid dairy manure and mineral fertilizer, as well as chisel and moldboard plow tillage systems, in a spring barley monoculture and a 3-yr spring barley-forage rotation that included red clover and timothy. Weed species richness (Margalef's D-MG), evenness (Shannon's E), and diversity (Shannon's H') were examined in these treatments from 1992 to 1995. Nutrient source had no effect on any of the three diversity indices. Evenness values were extremely low in all years, suggesting dominance of a few weed species in most treatments. Weed species richness and diversity generally were greater in the barley-forage rotation compared with the monoculture. Tillage effects on richness and diversity varied with crop rotation. Margalef's D-MG and Shannon's H' were greater in 1993 and 1995, but they were lower in 1994 when chisel was compared with moldboard plowing in the monoculture. In 1994, chickweed density was about five times greater in the chisel-plowed monoculture compared with other treatment combinations of rotation and tillage. In 1995, only one species with a density of six plants m(-2) occurred in the moldboard-plowed monoculture compared with three to six species and densities of 51 to 832 plants m(-2) in the other rotation by tillage treatments. Climatic conditions and herbicide use patterns in the different: crop rotation treatments may have contributed to the more dynamic nature of weed species diversity in the barley monoculture. Reduced frequency of tillage and herbicide application; management of the forage stands, especially with regard to their termination; and improved soil resource availability likely explained the increased but more stable diversity of the weed communities in the barley-forage rotation.		Agr Canada, Res Ctr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X2, Canada; Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Soil Sci, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A8, Canada; Agr Canada, Res Ctr, Ste Foy, PQ G1V 2J3, Canada; Agr Canada, Res Ctr, Normandin, PQ G8M 4K3, Canada; [Legere, A] Agr Canada, Res Ctr, 107 Sci Crescent, Saskatoon, SK S7N 0X2, Canada								58							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000071078400010		
J	Ramaiah, N; Nair, VR								Distribution and abundance of copepods in the pollution gradient zones of Bombay harbour Thana creek Bassein creek, west coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCES				26	1			20	25					MAR 1997	1997	Forty six species of copepods were identified, of which, 40 belonged to Calanoida with an overall dominance of Acartiidae. Acartia spinicauda, A. centrura and Centropages dorsispinatus were the common species throughout the year at all locations. Eucalanus subcrassus and Paracalanus aculeatus were more abundant in the outer zone, while A. tropica was very common in the interior region. Hyposaline species, Pseudodiaptomus binghami malayalus was recorded from the interior locations particularly during the monsoon months (June-September). Diversity indices (Shannon-Weaver's H' and Margalef's D) were higher in the outer coastal waters than in creek zone indicating lethal or sublethal effects of industrial and domestic wastes on the general faunistic composition as well as water quality of the creek stations.		[Ramaiah, N] NATL INST OCEANOG,PANAJI 403004,GOA,INDIA								25							Oceanography	WOS:A1997XD02100004		
J	Karydis, M; Tsirtsis, G								Ecological indices: A biometric approach for assessing eutrophication levels in the marine environment								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				186	3			209	219		10.1016/0048-9697(96)05114-5			JUL 30 1996	1996	The efficiency of 12 ecological indices expressing species diversity, abundance, evenness, dominance and biomass of phytoplankton to describe trophic levels in coastal marine ecosystems in the Eastern Mediterranean was assessed. The phytoplankton data were derived from three reference data sets characterising different trophic levels: (a) from inshore Saronikos Gulf waters characterising eutrophication; (b) from offshore waters of Saronikos Gulf representing mesotrophic conditions; and (c) from the oligotrophic offshore waters of the Island of Rhodes, Aegean Sea. Some of the commonly used indices such as the Simpson's, Shannon's and Margalef's indices seemed to be unsuitable for identifying eutrophic trends. On the other hand, the Menhinick's index, Kothe's index, Species Evenness, Species Number and Total Number of Individuals were found effective for distinguishing oligotrophic, mesotrophic and eutrophic waters, the most efficient being the Kothe's and Species Number indices. These indices were used to propose a classification scheme for characterising oligotrophic, mesotrophic and eutrophic waters in the Eastern Mediterranean. The experimental approach described in the present work can be used for water characterization in any waterbody, provided there are data available for setting up standard datasets that can define reference conditions.		[Karydis, M] UNIV AEGEAN, DEPT ENVIRONM STUDIES, AQUAT ECOSYST LAB, GR-81100 MITILINI, GREECE								90							Environmental Sciences	WOS:A1996UU39600004		
J	RATLIFF, RD								RANGELAND-ALPHA DIVERSITIES - HARVEY VALLEY, LASSEN-NATIONAL-FOREST, CALIFORNIA								GREAT BASIN NATURALIST				55	1			46	57					JAN 1995	1995	Monitoring diversity usually begins by estimating alpha diversity of a plant community on a specific site. The objectives of this study were to provide alpha diversity benchmarks and to determine whether rangeland community basal cover characteristics explained variation in diversity estimates. Plant and surface component cover percentages were estimated on 51 plots (representing four vegetation types) on the Lassen National Forest, CA. Each plot was sampled with 30 random, 102 basal point transects. Jackknife procedures were used to compute means and standard errors for Margalef's diversity index (D-m), which stresses species richness, and. Simpson's index (D-s), which stresses species dominance. Within vegetation types, D-m and D-s did not rank all plots in the same order Highest D-m values occurred with the most species. Highest D-s values occurred with comparatively few species but more uniform cover. With either index, average diversity declined from the meadow to grassland to open shrub-grass to timber-bunchgrass types. All possible subset regressions of diversity on the basal cover characteristics were computed. Portions of the variance accounted for by the best models were too low to allow prediction of D-m and D-s. The relation of alpha diversity to rangeland health is discussed.		[RATLIFF, RD] US FOREST SERV,PACIFIC SW RES STN,2081 E SIERRA,FRESNO,CA 93710, USA								0							Ecology	WOS:A1995QE75300005		
J	RESH, VH								VARIABILITY, ACCURACY, AND TAXONOMIC COSTS OF RAPID ASSESSMENT APPROACHES IN BENTHIC MACROINVERTEBRATE BIOMONITORING								BOLLETTINO DI ZOOLOGIA				61	4			375	383		10.1080/11250009409355910			1994	1994	Twenty population and community measures (with structural measures including richness, diversity indices, and biotic indices, and functional measures including functional feeding-group components) that have been proposed for use in benthic biomonitoring were examined in terms of within-habitat variability (using coefficients of variation), accuracy (i.e., indications of impact when impact occurred; no indications of impact when impact did not occur), and taxonomic effort required (e.g., from simple discrimination among taxa to generic identification of taxa and determination of trophic status).  Based on 54 samples from a uniform riffle of a California mountain stream, coefficients of variation ranged from 7% for Simpson's diversity index to greater than 100% for several measures.  Richness measures, Margalef's diversity index, the Family Biotic Index, and the ratio of individuals of the scraper functional-feeding group to total number of individuals were accurate in detecting acid and thermal stress (i.e., statistically significant differences were found) but did not indicate impact when no impact occurred.  Functional measures (e.g., ratios of functional groups) require greater taxonomic effort than structural measures.  Separation of natural variability from perturbation-induced variability is essential in the impact assessment process.		[RESH, VH] UNIV CALIF BERKELEY,DEPT ENTOMOL SCI,BERKELEY,CA 94720, USA								34							Zoology	WOS:A1994QC42600014		
J	HARDING, JS								DISCONTINUITIES IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF INVERTEBRATES IN IMPOUNDED SOUTH ISLAND RIVERS, NEW-ZEALAND								REGULATED RIVERS-RESEARCH & MANAGEMENT				7	4			327	335		10.1002/rrr.3450070403			DEC 1992	1992	The invertebrate fauna of 10 river systems, five with impoundments and five without, were sampled. No significant difference was found either in taxonomic richness or invertebrate densities between impounded and unimpounded sites at similar positions along river continua. However, plecopteran species richness was significantly lower and plecopteran density reduced in post-impoundment sites. Densities of Deleatidium spp. (Ephemeroptera: Leptephlebiidae) were significantly lower at lake outlets compared with other sites. Two species of Zelandobius (Plecoptera: Gripopterygidae) and Eriopterini (Diptera: Tipulidae) showed distributions apparently curtailed by impoundments, whereas Potamopyrgus antipodarum (Mollusca: Hydrobiidae) had an extended distribution. Margalef's, Menhinick's, Berger-Parker and Shannon indices, total taxa present and plecopteran taxa were plotted against stream order, stream width and distance from the source. Menhinick's and Shannon Weaver indices produced statistically significant but weak regressions, and discontinuity distances and intensity could not be accurately calculated. The usefulness of diversity indices as a measure of the magnitude of impoundment effects in the South Island seems to be limited.		[HARDING, JS] UNIV CANTERBURY,DEPT ZOOL,CHRISTCHURCH 1,NEW ZEALAND								7							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:A1992KC99700002		
J	DODD, CK								BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY OF A TEMPORARY POND HERPETOFAUNA IN NORTH FLORIDA SANDHILLS								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				1	3			125	142		10.1007/BF00695911			SEP 1992	1992	From 1985 through 1990, the herpetofauna of a temporary pond in an uplands longleaf pine sandhills community in north-central Florida was monitored. A drift fence completely encircled the pond. Animals were captured in pitfall traps and marked as they entered and exited the pond basin. I captured 16 155 individuals of 42 species (16 amphibians, 26 reptiles). The species richness, diversity (using Margalef's Diversity Index) and dominance (using the Berger-Parker Index) varied among years. Between 62.5% and 87.5% of the amphibian species and 65% to 81% of the reptile species were captured in any one year. Daily amphibian capture was positively correlated with rainfall, whereas reptile capture was either not correlated or weakly negatively correlated with rainfall. Hydroperiod duration was not correlated with the numbers of either amphibians or reptiles captured. Neither the amphibian nor the reptile community showed any trends in diversity or dominance indices during the course of the study, although both communities were dominated by a few species. However, the species responsible for community dominance changed somewhat as the study progressed. Assessing the results of this study is hampered by the lack of comparable studies elsewhere, expected natural fluctuations of amphibian populations, and a prolonged drought, especially during the latter stages of the study. The herpetological community at Breezeway Pond does not appear to follow theoretical predictions of community response to stress. Temporary ponds are important centres of herpetofaunal biodiversity in uplands sandhills communities. Long-term studies are needed to monitor the composition, structure, and functional interactions of their resident species.		[DODD, CK] US FISH & WILDLIFE SERV,NATL ECOL RES CTR,412 NE 16TH AVE,ROOM 250,GAINESVILLE,FL 32601, USA								73							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:A1992JQ67400001		
J	CAMARGO, JA								TEMPORAL AND SPATIAL VARIATIONS IN DOMINANCE, DIVERSITY AND BIOTIC INDEXES ALONG A LIMESTONE STREAM RECEIVING A TROUT FARM EFFLUENT								WATER AIR AND SOIL POLLUTION				63	3-4			343	359		10.1007/BF00475501			JUL 1992	1992	Benthic macroinvertebrate response to organic pollution generated by a trout farm, located in the upper Rio Tajuna (Central Spain), was evaluated by calculating Whittaker's and Camargo's dominance indices; Margalef's, Menhinick's, Camargo's, Shannon's and MacArthur's diversity indices; and several biotic indices, including the Trent Biotic Index (TBI), the Chandler Biotic Score (CBS), the Biological Monitoring Working Party (BMWP), the Average Score Per Taxon (ASPT) and the Overall Quality Rating (OQR). An upstream sampling site (S-1) and three downstream stations placed 10 (S-2), 150 (S-3) and 1000 (S-4) m below the fish farm outlet were selected along the study area. Site S-3 was situated just below a man-made waterfall (1.8 m in height). Winter, spring and summer macrobenthic surveys were conducted during 1986. Plecopterans, ephemeropterans, coleopterans, trichopterans, amphipods and planarians decreased in abundance or were basent at downstream sampling sites, whereas simuliids, leeches, chironomids and tubificid worms increased in abundance. All diversity and biotic indices had highest and lowest values at S-1 and S-2, respectively, and higher values at S-3 (below the waterfall) than at S-4. However, Shannon's and MacArthur's diversity indices and the TBI were less effective in quantifying differences among sampling sites, exhibiting the lowest positive coefficients of linear correlation with species richness and other diversity and biotic indices. Both dominance indices had highest values at S-2, but similar values at S-1, S-3 and S-4. Biotic indices (except the TBI) and Margalef's, Menhinick's and Camargo's diversity indices appear to be the most sensitive measures for assessing macroinvertebrate response to changes in environmental conditions downstream from thc fish farm. In addition, temporal variation in species richness, Margalef's index and biotic indices was similar, exhibiting their highest coefficients of variation at S-4. It is concluded that small waterfalls may improve the streamns self-purification of organic pollution generated by trout farms.		INST NACL INVEST AGR, CIT, CTR RES & TECHNOL, MADRID, SPAIN								43							Environmental Sciences; Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:A1992HY92100011		
J	HIRATA, T								SUCCESSION OF SESSILE ORGANISMS ON EXPERIMENTAL PLATES IMMERSED IN NABETA BAY, IZU PENINSULA, JAPAN .4. TEMPORAL CHANGES IN METABOLISM, BIOMASS AND MATURITY OF COMMUNITY								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				6	3			347	362		10.1007/BF02347133			DEC 1991	1991	Community succession in the metabolism, biomass and maturity of sessile organisms on concrete plates immersed at depths of 1.0, 2.5, 4.0 and 5.5 m in Nabeta Bay, Shimoda, Pacific coast of Japan, was investigated over a period of about 3 yr. Gross primary production of the community (Pg) and community respiration (R) showed maxima at 10 and 13 months after immersion, and then Pg decreased significantly at all depths, whereas R was reduced only at the lower two depths. A parameter of community biomass, chlorophyll a (Chl. a), showed a similar successional change to Pg. Five other parameters, i.e. dry mass (DM), ash dry mass (ADM), ash-free dry mass (AFDM), organic carbon (C) and organic nitrogen (N) increased significantly throughout succession, at least at the uppermost depth, but decreased significantly in the period 13-37 months after immersion at the lowest depth. Successional changes in five indices reflecting community maturity, i.e. the ratios of estimated daily gross primary production/estimated daily respiration (Pg/R), gross primary production/organic carbon (Pg/C), gross primary production/chlorophyll a (Pg/Chl. a), organic carbon/organic nitrogen (C/N) and Margalef's pigment diversity (D430/D665), also differed among the depths, especially at 37 months after immersion. Succession at the upper two depths appeared to progress toward a mature state, as opposed to retrogression to an immature state at the lower two depths. This difference in successional changes in these 13 parameters between depths agrees with the prediction of Margalef (1968) and Odum (1969), despite the tendency for Pg/R to be more heterotrophic in an open system.		[HIRATA, T] UNIV TSUKUBA,INST BIOL SCI,TSUKUBA,IBARAKI 305,JAPAN								0							Ecology	WOS:A1991GU31500011		
