PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	Smales, L. R.; Wood, J. A. L.; Chisholm, L. A.								A review of the nematode assemblage of the Australian bandicoot, <i>Isoodon macrourus</i> (Peramelidae), from material held in the South Australian Museum with the description of <i>Sprattellus cassonei</i> n. sp. (Mackerrastrongylidae)								JOURNAL OF HELMINTHOLOGY				97						e79	10.1017/S0022149X23000639			OCT 19 2023	2023	A total of 235 vials of nematodes held in the Australian Helminthological Collection of the South Australian Museum from 125 individuals of Isoodon macrourus were examined. The nematode assemblage of I. macrourus, comprising 12 families, including 16 genera and 23 identified species, was compared with the sympatric bandicoot species Perameles nasuta, 20 identified species (Sorensen's index of similarity 0.56) and P. pallescens, 12 identified species (Sorensen's index 0.51). Sprattellus cassonei n. sp. is distinguished from its congeners by having a synlophe with 7-8 ridges with the anterior ventral ridges interrupted, the morphology of the dorsal ray and the branching of the spicule tips. A single male specimen identified as Linstowinema sp. 1. is characterised by seven circles of body hooks, the oesophagus terminating at the level of the seventh circle and robust scale-like spines on the posterior ventral body. A complete description of the species will require additional material, including females. Difficulties in identifying individuals of the genus Mackerrastrongylus to species level are discussed. Overall similarities in the nematode assemblages of the three bandicoot hosts are likely due to shared relationships and similar behaviours.		[Smales, L. R.; Wood, J. A. L.; Chisholm, L. A.] South Australian Museum, Parasitol Sect, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia; [Chisholm, L. A.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Biol Sci Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia; [Smales, L. R.] South Australian Museum, Parasitol Sect, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia								0							Parasitology; Zoology	WOS:001089222200001		
J	Chama, Eyasu; Shibru, Simon; Gebre, Tizazu; Demissew, Sebsebe; Woldu, Zerihun								Plant community types and species compositional variations of the forest patches in Wolaita zone, Southwest Ethiopia								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				24	3			317	331		10.1007/s42974-023-00159-1			OCT 2023	2023	Forests in Ethiopia are of high ecological value, but their area is declining at an alarming rate due to various anthropogenic pressures. We identified and characterized plant communities, species diversity, and their determinants in forest patches in Wolaita, Southwest Ethiopia. We recorded the number of individuals of plants, species cover-abundance, and environmental factors in 126 (20 m x 20 m) quadrats. We sampled soils from three layers of 10 cm depth each and took air-dried composite samples to soil laboratory of Arba Minch University for analyses. The plant community-environment relationship was determined using canonical correspondence analysis. We used various diversity indices to compute species diversity. Species composition resemblance between the plant communities was determined using Sorensen's similarity coefficient. We identified five distinct plant communities using hierarchical agglomerative clustering. Diospyros abyssinica-Combretum collinum community was rich, while Combretum molle-Ficus vasta community was poor in species. Juniperus procera-Olea europaea community and Cordia africana-Prunus africana community showed the highest species similarity. D. abyssinica-C. collinum community had the maximum Shannon entropy (H = 4.19), while C. molle-F. vasta community had the minimum (H = 3.17). Shannon entropy was high in the study area (H = 3.75; Evenness = 0.86; Number of effective species = 41.7). J. procera-O. europaea community was dense (1014 individuals' ha-1), whereas C. molle-F. vasta community was sparse (762 individuals ha-1). Altitude, pH, EC, total nitrogen, sand, and clay explained most of the variations among community types. In general, low level of disturbance was detected in the study areas. Anthropogenic pressures, such as livestock grazing, and browsing, tree cutting for construction material and fuelwood, and mowing of grasses for livestock feed and roof cover may expose the soil to erosion and can alter the composition and structure of the forest patches in the study area. The low disturbance value, the high Shannon entropy, and other metrics show that these communities are of high natural value; thus, their preservation is of utmost importance. Monitoring and conservation intervention are necessary to sustain the importance of forest ecosystems.		[Chama, Eyasu; Shibru, Simon; Gebre, Tizazu] Arba Minch Univ, Biol Dept, POB 21, Arba Minch, Ethiopia; [Demissew, Sebsebe; Woldu, Zerihun] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Plant Biol & Biodivers Management, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Shibru, Simon] Arba Minch Univ, Biol Dept, POB 21, Arba Minch, Ethiopia								0							Ecology	WOS:001067128100001		
J	Sanchez-Diaz, Baltazar; Solis-Silvan, Rudy; Fraire-Vazquez, Azucena del Rosario; Ruiz-Moreno, Amalia Xiutlhalzin; Rios-Rodas, Liliana; Geronimo-Torres, Jose del Carmen								The dynamic of shade trees in cocoa agrosystems								INGENIERIA Y COMPETITIVIDAD				25	3					e12482	10.25100/iyc.v25i3.12482.			SEP-DEC 2023	2023	The presence of diverse shade trees in cocoa agrosystems allows for the creation of suitable habitats for wildlife species, enabling them to thrive within the plantation environment. The objective of this research is to calculate the similarity indices of shade trees used in cocoa agrosystems in the region of Comalcalco, Tabasco, Mexico. Field sampling was carried out to collect data on breast height diameter, canopy diameter and canopy height, these variables were used to calculate the Sorensen and Morisita-Horn similarity indices. The similarity between the study sites, Sorensen's qualitative index shows that SA 1 -SA 2 are the most similar in species composition, SA 1 -SA 2 with 27.46% similarity, followed by SA 2 -SA 3 with 27.27 %, while SA 1 -SA 3 are the sites with a less similar structure of 26.52%. The role of shade trees in cocoa agrosystems is significant as it can serve as a variable in assessing and predicting the quality of available habitats for wildlife conservation, including birds, reptiles, and arboreal mammals, using ecological niche modeling techniques.		[Sanchez-Diaz, Baltazar; Solis-Silvan, Rudy; Fraire-Vazquez, Azucena del Rosario; Ruiz-Moreno, Amalia Xiutlhalzin] Tecnol Nacl Mexico TecNM, Campus Comalcalco,Carretera vecinal,Paraiso Comalc, Comalcalco 86650, Tabasco, Mexico; [Rios-Rodas, Liliana; Geronimo-Torres, Jose del Carmen] Univ Autonoma Chiapas, Fac Maya Estudios Agr, Carretera Catazaja Palenque Km 4, Catazaja 29980, Chiapas, Mexico; [Sanchez-Diaz, Baltazar] Tecnol Nacl Mexico TecNM, Campus Comalcalco,Carretera vecinal,Paraiso Comalc, Comalcalco 86650, Tabasco, Mexico								0							Engineering, Multidisciplinary	WOS:001030677200002		
J	Smales, Lesley R.; Wood, Jo A. L.; Chisholm, Leslie A.								A review of the nematode assemblages of the genus <i>Perameles</i> (Peramelidae), Australian bandicoots, held in the South Australian Museum								TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA				147	2			173	189		10.1080/03721426.2023.2239547			JUL 3 2023	2023	A total of 210 vials of nematodes collected from four species of Perameles (representing 15 individuals of P. bougainville, 83 of P. gunnii, 54 of P. nasuta and 19 of P. pallescens) held in the Australian Helminthological Collection of the South Australian Museum were examined. Nematodes were identified and parasite assemblages of the four hosts were compared. Using only the number of nematodes identified to species as an indicator of diversity, the nematode community of P. bougainville was the most depauperate (4 species) followed by P. gunnii (11 species), P. pallescens (12 species) and P. nasuta (20 species). None of the species were found in all four hosts. Excluding P. bougainville, Sorensen's index of similarity showed that P. gunnii and P. pallescens had the least similar, 0.26, and P. pallescens and P. nasuta the most similar, 0.50, nematode communities. Linstowinema warringtoni Smales, 1997, Mackerrastrongylus peramelis (Johnston & Mawson, 1938) and Peramelistrongylus skedastos Mawson, 1960 were found in three hosts, P. gunnii, P. nasuta and P. pallescens. Each of the four hosts had a unique species profile: four species of Physaloptera being found in P. nasuta, three in P. pallescens, one in P. gunnii and none in P. bougainville. Of the trichostrongyloids, Mackerrastrongylus peramelis was the most prevalent in P. pallescens and Peramelistrongylus skedastos in P. gunnii and P. nasuta. The influence of nematode collection techniques, sample sizes and host geographic range and ecology may have had on the assemblages we observed is discussed.		[Smales, Lesley R.; Wood, Jo A. L.; Chisholm, Leslie A.] Parasitol Sect, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Chisholm, Leslie A.] Univ Adelaide, Sch Biol Sci, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Smales, Lesley R.] South Australian Museum, Parasitol Sect, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia; [Smales, Lesley R.] South Australian Museum, Parasitol Sect, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001041936900001		
J	Greyling, Eugene; Comley, Jessica; Cherry, Michael I.; Leslie, Alison J.; Mueller, Lana								Facilitation of a free-roaming apex predator in working lands: evaluating factors that influence leopard spatial dynamics and prey availability in a South African biodiversity hotspot								PEERJ				11						e14575	10.7717/peerj.14575			JAN 25 2023	2023	Apex predators ideally require vast intact spaces that support sufficient prey abundances to sustain them. In a developing world, however, it is becoming extremely difficult to maintain large enough areas to facilitate apex predators outside of protected regions. Free-roaming leopards (Panthera pardus) are the last remaining apex predator in the Greater Cape Floristic Region, South Africa, and face a multitude of threats attributable to competition for space and resources with humans. Using camera-trap data, we investigated the influence of anthropogenic land modification on leopards and the availability of their natural prey species in two contrasting communities-primarily protected (Cederberg) and agriculturally transformed (Piketberg). Potential prey species composition and diversity were determined, to indicate prey availability in each region. Factors influencing spatial utilisation by leopards and their main prey species were also assessed. Estimated potential prey species richness (Cederberg = 27, Piketberg = 26) and diversity indices (Cederberg-H ' = 2.64, Ds = 0.90; Piketberg-H ' = 2.46, Ds = 0.89), supported by both the Jaccard's Index (J = 0.73) and Sorensen's Coefficient (CC = 0.85), suggested high levels of similarity across the two regions. Main leopard prey species were present in both regions, but their relative abundances differed. Grey rhebok, klipspringer, and rock hyrax were more abundant in the Cederberg, while Cape grysbok, Cape porcupine, chacma baboon, and common duiker were more abundant in Piketberg. Leopards persisted across the agriculturally transformed landscape despite these differences. Occupancy modelling revealed that the spatial dynamics of leopards differed between the two regions, except for both populations preferring areas further away from human habitation. Overall, anthropogenic factors played a greater role in affecting spatial utilisation by leopards and their main prey species in the transformed region, whereas environmental factors had a stronger influence in the protected region. We argue that greater utilisation of alternative main prey species to those preferred in the protected region, including livestock, likely facilitates the persistence of leopards in the transformed region, and believe that this has further implications for human-wildlife conflict. Our study provides a baseline understanding of the potential direct and indirect impacts of agricultural landscape transformation on the behaviour of leopards and shows that heavily modified lands have the potential to facilitate mammalian diversity, including apex predators. We iterate that conservation measures for apex predators should be prioritised where they are present on working lands, and encourage the collaborative development of customised, cost-effective, multi-species conflict management approaches that facilitate coexistence.		[Greyling, Eugene; Cherry, Michael I.] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, Stellenbosch, Western Cape, South Africa; [Greyling, Eugene; Mueller, Lana] Cape Leopard Trust, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa; [Comley, Jessica] Univ Mpumalanga, Wildlife & Reserve Management Res Grp, Mbombela, Mpumalanga, South Africa; [Leslie, Alison J.] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Conservat Ecol & Entomol, Stellenbosch, Western Cape, South Africa; [Greyling, Eugene] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Bot & Zool, Stellenbosch, Western Cape, South Africa; [Greyling, Eugene] Cape Leopard Trust, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000926007400006		
J	Anamo, Abera; Mammo, Siraj; Temesgen, Mathewos								Floristic composition and community analysis of woody species in Hereje Natural Forest, southwest Ethiopia								SN APPLIED SCIENCES				5	1					48	10.1007/s42452-022-05265-9			JAN 2023	2023	The floristic composition, diversity, and conservation status of woody plant species in Ethiopia are determined in this study. Data on vegetation are collected using a systematic random sampling method from 45 20 m x 20 m (400m(2)) plots laid every 100 m along four parallel transect lines running from south to north. The Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea identification key (Volume I-VIII) is used to identify the scientific names of all woody plant species. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index is used to calculate species diversity, whereas Sorensen's similarity coefficient is used to assess similarities and differences among plant communities. The studied forest contains 44 plant species from 29 families and 40 genera. The Fabaceae is the most dominant family, followed by the Rubiaceae and Combretaceae. In terms of habit, the collected woody species consisted of 30 (68.2%) trees and 14 (31.8%) shrubs. The two most frequent species are Syzygium guineense (51.11%) and Maytenus gracilipes (46.66%). Three plant community types are identified using Agglomerative Hierarchical Cluster Analysis. Most species (Calpurnia aurea-Combretum molle) are observed in community type two. The study is generally limited to the floristic and diversity of woody plant species. Therefore, a thorough investigation of all species' floristic composition, population structure, regeneration status, and ecological aspects is recommended.		[Anamo, Abera; Mammo, Siraj; Temesgen, Mathewos] Ambo Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Biol Dept, Box 19, Ambo, Ethiopia; [Mammo, Siraj] Ambo Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Biol Dept, Box 19, Ambo, Ethiopia								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000906277400001		
J	Akyol, Duygu; Akyazi, Rana								Comparative faunistic analysis of mite species on neglected and conventional pome fruit trees in Turkey								ACAROLOGIA				62	4			941	955		10.24349/vt6l-svza			2022	2022	The paper presents the comparative faunistic analysis of leaf inhabiting mite species on neglected and conventionally grown pome fruit trees in Turkey as well as their diversity and distributions. For this purpose, twelve sampling areas were chosen in the Ordu region of Turkey. The study was carried out on four fruit tree species, apple (Malus domestica), pear (Pyrus communis), quince (Cydonia oblonga), and loquat (Eriobotrya japonica), between 2014 and 2019. In the study, a total of 42 mite species were identified from 12 families belonging to two orders. 92.43% of all species were found on the neglected trees, while 7.57% were reported in the conventional orchards. Among phytophagous mites, Cenopalpus pulcher on the neglected trees and Amphitetranychus viennensis in the conventional orchards showed the greatest overall constancy. The most abundant and common predatory species were Phytoseius finitimus on the neglected trees and Transeius wainsteini in the conventional orchards. A high faunistic similarity was found between the conventionally grown apple fruit trees and neglected apple, pear, quince, loquat trees. Considering together predatory and tetranychoid mites, the highest interspecific association index was revealed for the pair T. wainsteini - C. pulcher. Additionally, the pair Z. mali - T. wainsteini within the predatory mites and A. viennensis - C. pulcher within the tetranychoid mites had the highest index of association.		[Akyol, Duygu; Akyazi, Rana] Ordu Univ, Fac Agr, Plant Protect Dept, Ordu, Turkey; [Akyazi, Rana] Ordu Univ, Fac Agr, Plant Protect Dept, Ordu, Turkey								0							Entomology	WOS:000861702400001		
J	Yinebeb, Metsehet; Lulekal, Ermias; Bekele, Tamrat								Composition of homegarden plants and cultural use in an indigenous community in Northwest Ethiopia								JOURNAL OF ETHNOBIOLOGY AND ETHNOMEDICINE				18	1					47	10.1186/s13002-022-00545-5			JUN 20 2022	2022	Background Homegardens in Northern Ethiopia received little investigation into the diversity of plants and no study and recording in the Gozamin District. This study was used to fill the gap in how cultural use and cultural importance conserve species diversity in homegardens in the different agroclimatic zones in northwestern Ethiopia. Methods The study district and 12 kebeles were chosen using multistage and stratified random selection procedures based on traditional agroclimatic zones in the Gozamin District, Northwest Ethiopia, respectively. The number of plots chosen in each homegarden was determined by the homegarden's size, which ranges from 0.015 to 0.5 ha. These data were gathered by putting plots with a distance gradient from home (size: 10 x 10 m each). A semi-structured interview and complete plant inventory were conducted to document the informant's knowledge of plant species. Sorensen's similarity indices and Shannon-Wiener diversity indices were used to compare the similarity of sites and three agroclimatic zones, respectively. Direct matrix ranking, cultural importance (CI), the relative frequency of citation, and cultural value were used in quantitative analysis to compare the most common multipurpose plants. Results A total of 238 culturally important plant species from 81 families were identified. The Kruskal-Wallis test showed that there was a significant difference among the three agroclimatic zones species diversity (H = 103.4, Hc = 111.2, p < 0.05). Of the total plant species recorded, 59% were reported to be utilized for environmental uses, 35% were food crops, and 35% were medicinal plant species. The same was true for the three agroclimatic zones; food and medicinal uses were the first and second most important use categories, respectively. The similarity index for 64% of the sites investigated was less than 0.5. Cordia africana (FC = 125) was the most culturally significant species with a value of 2.23 on the CI index. Conclusion Homegardens are multifunctional systems. The presence of different agroclimatic zones, cultural uses, cultural importance, and cultural value of the species are central to conserving plant species in the area. As the size of the garden increases, so does the diversity of species and uses. Our findings suggest that conservation strategies should take into account the links between plant composition and cultural importance.		[Yinebeb, Metsehet; Lulekal, Ermias; Bekele, Tamrat] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat Sci, Plant Biol & Biodivers Management, POB 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Yinebeb, Metsehet] Kotebe Univ Educ, Biol Dept, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Yinebeb, Metsehet] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat Sci, Plant Biol & Biodivers Management, POB 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Yinebeb, Metsehet] Kotebe Univ Educ, Biol Dept, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia								3							Biodiversity Conservation; Plant Sciences; Pharmacology & Pharmacy	WOS:000813731700001		
J	Rios Barreto, Andressa Mota; Gomes, Lhoraynne Pereira; Kunz, Sustanis Horn; Dias, Henrique Machado; Pedra de Abreu, Karla Maria								Structure, floristic composition and environmental relationships of natural regeneration in a semideciduous seasonal forest								CIENCIA FLORESTAL				32	2			757	775		10.5902/1980509848183			APR-JUN 2022	2022	This paper aims to evaluate the floristic and structure of natural regeneration in a forest fragment located in the south of Espirito Santo State, as well as to verify the interaction between vegetation and environmental variables. The study was developed in Private Reserve of Nature Patrimony (RPPN) Cafundo, with twelve sample units (1 x 20m), where three classes based on size - Class 1 (plants between 0.1 and 1m high), Class 2 (plants between 1.1 and 3m high) and Class 3 (plants higher than 3m and less than 5cm DBH). This RPPN has a total area of 517ha, which approximately 358ha were used for allocation of experimental units. Individuals were classified according to ecological group and dispersion syndrome. Floristic diversity, equability, density and frequency of species were also calculated. Analysis of natural regeneration, floristic similarity between natural regeneration and the upper layer as well the regenerating layer interaction with environmental variables was performed through Canonical Correspondence Analysis. We found 678 individuals distributed in 73 morphospecies/species, with Actinostemon klotzschii and Goniorrhachis marginate being the most abundant. Sorensen's similarity between natural regeneration and the adult tree layer was 29%. The most dominant ecological groups were late secondary, while zoochory was the predominant dispersion syndrome among existing species. Shannon diversity index was 3.13 and equability 0.72. Goniorrhachis marginata, Actinostemon klotzschii and Psychotria carthagenensis species had correlation with carbon (C), phosphorus (P), declivity and canopy cover. We concluded that the natural regeneration component within studied area has a high richness and density of individuals when compared to studies developed in similar phytophysiognomies. The studied environmental variables seem to have little influence on the distribution of natural regeneration species in the RPPN, once only carbon, phosphorus, declivity and canopy cover have explained the species distribution within fragment.		[Rios Barreto, Andressa Mota; Kunz, Sustanis Horn; Dias, Henrique Machado] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Jeronimo Monteiro, ES, Brazil; [Gomes, Lhoraynne Pereira] Univ Fed Vicosa, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Pedra de Abreu, Karla Maria] Inst Fed Educ Ciencia & Tecnol Espirito Santo, Alegre, ES, Brazil; [Rios Barreto, Andressa Mota] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Jeronimo Monteiro, ES, Brazil								0							Plant Sciences; Forestry	WOS:000820838200012		
J	Dias, Filipe S.; Betancourt, Michael; Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Patricia Maria; Borda-de-Agua, Luis								Analysing the distance decay of community similarity in river networks using Bayesian methods								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				11	1					21660	10.1038/s41598-021-01149-x			NOV 4 2021	2021	The distance decay of community similarity (DDCS) is a pattern that is widely observed in terrestrial and aquatic environments. Niche-based theories argue that species are sorted in space according to their ability to adapt to new environmental conditions. The ecological neutral theory argues that community similarity decays due to ecological drift. The continuum hypothesis provides an intermediate perspective between niche-based theories and the neutral theory, arguing that niche and neutral factors are at the opposite ends of a continuum that ranges from competitive to stochastic exclusion. We assessed the association between niche-based and neutral factors and changes in community similarity measured by Sorensen's index in riparian plant communities. We assessed the importance of neutral processes using network distances and flow connection and of niche-based processes using Strahler order differences and precipitation differences. We used a hierarchical Bayesian approach to determine which perspective is best supported by the results. We used dataset composed of 338 vegetation censuses from eleven river basins in continental Portugal. We observed that changes in Sorensen indices were associated with network distance, flow connection, Strahler order difference and precipitation difference but to different degrees. The results suggest that community similarity changes are associated with environmental and neutral factors, supporting the continuum hypothesis.		[Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] Univ Porto, CIBIO InBio, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado, Campus Agr Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] Univ Lisbon, CIBIO InBio, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado,Inst Super Agron, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] CIBIO, BIOPOLIS Program Genom Biodivers & Land Planning, Campus Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Betancourt, Michael] Symplectomorphic LLC, New York, NY USA; [Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Patricia Maria] Univ Lisbon, Inst Super Agron, Ctr Estudos Florestais, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] Univ Porto, CIBIO InBio, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado, Campus Agr Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] Univ Lisbon, CIBIO InBio, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado,Inst Super Agron, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] CIBIO, BIOPOLIS Program Genom Biodivers & Land Planning, Campus Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal								3							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000714702000026		
J	Borz, Stelian Alexandru; Iordache, Eugen; Marcu, Marina Viorela								Enhancing Working Posture Comparability in Forest Operations by the Use of Similarity Metrics								FORESTS				12	7					926	10.3390/f12070926			JUL 2021	2021	Forest operations are well known in exposing their workers to many risk factors, and they often require ergonomic interventions for improvement. In this regard, evaluation of biomechanical exposure has gained a lot of interest due to the concerning scientific results repeatedly showing the association between poor working postures and the development of work-related musculoskeletal disorders. Due to its simplicity, easy understanding, cost affordability, and the capability to evaluate the whole body, the OWAS method has been commonly used in postural evaluation of forestry work, being able to map the experimental observations in a final action category, in the form of a postural risk index (PRI), which helps designing or taking actions for ergonomic improvement. However, postural comparability is both relevant and important when, for instance, one tries to improve a work method or to introduce a new technology. Unfortunately, the PRI metric holds a rather low capability to characterize the changes brought by such factors in terms of postural dissimilarity or similarity, making it difficult to accurately follow the changes. For this reason, we introduce in the postural analysis, test and discuss herein two commonly used similarity metrics as specific to plant sociology and other ecology-related sciences, namely the Sorensen's quotient of similarity (hereafter QS) and the Canberra metric (hereafter CM); their selection was based on their mathematical capabilities of dealing with data at two resolutions, namely species and individuals. Three case studies were setup to show the differences between QS, CM, and PRI and their usefulness for postural analysis while, for a better understanding, the results were described and discussed by analogy to the living world. As the technology of automating data collection and processing for postural analysis is in progress, the utility of similarity metrics in postural assessment and comparison could be further expanded so as to map a given work sequence in the time domain against best-fit postural profiles. The main conclusion of this study is that the PRI is useful for action-taking while the similarity metrics are useful for pairwise postural change evaluations and comparison.		[Borz, Stelian Alexandru; Iordache, Eugen; Marcu, Marina Viorela] Transilvania Univ Brasov, Fac Silviculture & Forest Engn, Dept Forest Engn Forest Management Planning & Ter, Sirul Beethoven 1, Brasov 500123, Romania; [Marcu, Marina Viorela] Transilvania Univ Brasov, Fac Silviculture & Forest Engn, Dept Forest Engn Forest Management Planning & Ter, Sirul Beethoven 1, Brasov 500123, Romania								5							Forestry	WOS:000676409100001		
J	Panahi, Parisa; Hamzehee, Behnam; Ashouri, Parvaneh; Jalili, Adel; Najibzadeh, Mohammad Reza; Pourhashemi, Mehdi; Hasaninejad, Maryam								ASSESSMENT OF SOIL SEED BANK CHARACTERISTICS IN A MOUNTAIN GRASSLAND OF IRAN								ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT JOURNAL				20	6			1025	1034					JUN 2021	2021	Soil seed bank is an important reservoir for restoration of degraded rangeland ecosystems. The study was conducted to assess the ability of soil seed bank to restore the aboveground vegetation in a mountain grassland, north-west of Iran. We studied characteristics of the soil seed bank and similarity between seed bank and ground flora at two soil depths of 0-5 and 5-10 cm. In order to predict persistent seeds, the relationship between seed weight and variance of seed dimensions were calculated. The results showed that Poaceae in ground flora and soil seed bank was the dominant family. Cryptophytes and hemicryptophytes had higher abundance in both depths. The seed bank composition did not differ significantly (p > 0.5) between the two burial depths, however, the total seed bank density was significantly (p < 0.01) higher in the 0-5cm depth (134 seedlings) relative to 5-10 cm (81 seedlings). Species composition of the seed bank and aboveground flora was similar (Sorensen's similarity index = 76%). The relationship between seed mass and variance of seed dimension showed that seed size and shape were not related to persistence of the soil seed bank of the selected species. Our results suggest that the soil seed bank can play an important role in the rehabilitation of aboveground vegetation in the mountain grasslands of Iran, if they are threatened.		[Panahi, Parisa; Hamzehee, Behnam; Jalili, Adel; Hasaninejad, Maryam] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, Bot Res Div, Tehran, Iran; [Panahi, Parisa; Hamzehee, Behnam; Ashouri, Parvaneh; Jalili, Adel; Pourhashemi, Mehdi; Hasaninejad, Maryam] Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, POB 13186-116, Tehran, Iran; [Ashouri, Parvaneh] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, Rangeland Res Div, Tehran, Iran; [Najibzadeh, Mohammad Reza] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, East Azerbaijan Agr & Nat Resources Res & Educ, Forests & Rangelands Res Dept, Tabriz, Iran; [Pourhashemi, Mehdi] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, Forest Res Div, Tehran, Iran; [Panahi, Parisa] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, Bot Res Div, Tehran, Iran; [Panahi, Parisa] Res Inst Forests & Rangelands, POB 13186-116, Tehran, Iran								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000674937800015		
J	Muluneh, Melese Genete; Feyissa, Motuma Tolera; Wolde, Tefera Mangistu								Effect of forest fragmentation and disturbance on diversity and structure of woody species in dry Afromontane forests of northern Ethiopia								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				30	6			1753	1779		10.1007/s10531-021-02167-x			MAY 2021	2021	Anthropogenic disturbance and fragmentation have changed the structure and composition of northern Ethiopian forests. This study was conducted to determine disturbance levels of patches, and examine the effect of anthropogenic disturbance and fragment size on diversity and structural attributes of woody species. A systematic sampling method was used to collect data and 61 nested plots of each 400 m(2) were used. The disturbance index was used to assess disturbance intensities. To examine the effects of fragment size and anthropogenic disturbances on woody species diversity and structure, regression analysis was performed. ANOVA was used to examine differences in woody species diversity and structural attributes among fragments. Similarities among patches were assessed by Sorensen's similarity index. A total of 80 woody species, representing 68 genera and 43 families were recorded. Diversity, evenness, stem density ha(-1), and basal area were 2.8 +/- 0.47, 0.73 +/- 1.10, 1171.21 +/- 220.10, and 39.89 +/- 17.47 m(2) ha(-1) respectively. The mean number of species, evenness, and diversity were significantly different among fragments. Diversity, evenness, the mean number of species, and stem density per hectare significantly increased with increasing fragment size. Disturbance intensities varied among fragments. However, the mean basal area, mean seedling, and sapling density per hectare were not significantly affected by patch size and disturbance intensities. Generally, forest fragmentation and anthropogenic disturbance resulted in the reduction of diversity, affect woody species structure, and increased the level of disturbance. Therefore, recognizing the role of small fragments for forest conservation, minimizing further disturbance, and undertaking restoration activities in disturbed patches are strongly needed.		[Muluneh, Melese Genete] Wollo Univ, Dept Forestry, Coll Agr, POB 1145, Dessie, Ethiopia; [Feyissa, Motuma Tolera] Hawassa Univ, Wondo Genet Coll Forestry & Nat Resources, POB 128, Shashemene, Ethiopia; [Wolde, Tefera Mangistu] Forests & Climate Change Commiss, Environm, POB 12760, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Muluneh, Melese Genete] Wollo Univ, Dept Forestry, Coll Agr, POB 1145, Dessie, Ethiopia								10							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000636396000001		
J	Tamura, Atsushi								Potential for soil seed banks to drive vegetation changes in windswept <i>Sasa</i> grasslands in eastern Japan								JOURNAL OF FOREST RESEARCH				26	1			75	80		10.1080/13416979.2020.1844941			JAN 2 2021	2021	Windswept Sasa grasslands are stable communities but may have the potential to change into other vegetation such as forests through germination of the soil seed bank. I investigated the compositions of the vegetation and soil seed banks in two windswept Sasa grasslands in the Tanzawa Mountains, eastern Japan: Ryugababa (RGB) and Fudonomine (FDM). Tall tree and sub-tall tree seedlings were present in both grasslands but were below a dense cover of Sasa hayatae. The number of buried viable seeds was estimated as 2831 seeds m(-2) comprising 39 species at RGB and 5786 seeds m(-2) comprising 58 species at FDM, 70% of which were graminoids and 5-23% of which were sub-tall trees at both sites. Most sub-tall tree seeds were Weigela decora, which forms windswept scrub forests around Sasa grasslands. No seedlings of S. hayatae germinated from any of the soil seed bank samples. A habitat type analysis of the soil seed banks showed that the "other" type (species that are infrequent or do not belong to a particular plant association) had the highest relative dominance (approximately 70%), followed by windswept scrub forest (13-25%) at both sites. Sorensen's similarity index between the vegetation and soil seed bank was low (39.6% in RGB and 47.1% in FDM), possibly because the dense Sasa cover prevents seedlings from germinating and growing. These results suggest that the soil seed banks in windswept Sasa grasslands have different species compositions from the vegetation and consequently have the potential to cause a shift to W. decora scrub forest.		[Tamura, Atsushi] Kanagawa Prefecture Nat Environm Conservat Ctr, Div Forest Res & Nat Restorat Planning, Atsugi, Kanagawa, Japan; [Tamura, Atsushi] Kanagawa Prefecture Nat Environm Conservat Ctr, Div Forest Res & Nat Restorat Planning, Atsugi, Kanagawa, Japan								0							Forestry	WOS:000597699300001		
J	Ceretti-Junior, Walter; Oliveira-Christe, Rafael; Wilk-da-Silva, Ramon; Mucci, Luis Filipe; Ribeiro de Castro Duarte, Ana Maria; Fernandes, Aristides; Barrio-Nuevo, Karolina Morales; Carvalho, Marcio Port; Marrelli, Mauro Toledo; Medeiros-Sousa, Antonio Ralph								Diversity analysis and an updated list of mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) found in Cantareira State Park, SAo Paulo, Brazil								ACTA TROPICA				212						105669	10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105669			DEC 2020	2020	Cantareira State Park (CSP) is located in the Metropolitan Region of SAo Paulo, one of the most densely populated areas on the planet. Recently, a yellow-fever epidemic practically annihilated the howler monkey population in this park, and human infections were reported in the vicinity. As simian and human plasmodia also circulate in CSP, the present study sought to provide an update on the mosquito fauna in this park, including an analysis of the diversity in areas with different degrees of conservation and a comparison of the yields achieved with different collection techniques. From October 2015 to April 2017, adult mosquitoes were collected with CDC traps, hand-held battery-powered aspirators and Shannon traps, and larvae and pupae were collected with larval dippers and suction samplers in natural and artificial breeding sites. In total, 11,038 specimens distributed in 103 taxa represented by 16 genera were collected. Both the observed species richness and diversity were greater in the environments with the highest degree of preservation. The 'wild' (most preserved) area in CSP had the greatest species richness, followed by the transition area and human-impacted area. The estimated richness indicated that the three environments may have a greater number of species than observed in this study, and Sorensen's index showed that the average degree of similarity varies little between areas. In the inventory of local species, the Shannon trap was the most efficient collection technique for adult mosquitoes, and the suction sampler the most efficient for immatures. The results highlight the increase in the number of different taxa collected as different mosquito capture techniques were included, confirming the importance of using several strategies to sample the local mosquito fauna satisfactorily when exploring a greater number of ecotopes. CSP is a refuge and shelter for native and introduced mosquito species where new biocenoses including pathogens, vertebrate hosts and vectors can form, allowing zoonotic outbreaks in the local human population to occur.		[Ceretti-Junior, Walter; Fernandes, Aristides; Barrio-Nuevo, Karolina Morales; Marrelli, Mauro Toledo; Medeiros-Sousa, Antonio Ralph] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Oliveira-Christe, Rafael; Wilk-da-Silva, Ramon; Marrelli, Mauro Toledo] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Trop Med, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Mucci, Luis Filipe; Ribeiro de Castro Duarte, Ana Maria] State Hlth Secretariat, Superintendency Control Endem Dis, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Carvalho, Marcio Port] State Dept Infrastruct & Environm, Inst Forestry, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Medeiros-Sousa, Antonio Ralph] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil								8							Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000600041100012		
J	Borokini, Israel T.; Weisberg, Peter J.; Peacock, Mary M.								Quantifying the relationship between soil seed bank and plant community assemblage in sites harboring the threatened <i>Ivesia webberi</i> in the western Great Basin Desert								APPLIED VEGETATION SCIENCE				24	1						10.1111/avsc.12547			JAN 2021	2021	Questions The soil seed bank is an important ecosystem component that can be pivotal for long-term persistence of many plant species, especially after disturbances followed by the invasion of alien weeds. However, many Great Basin Desert perennials produce relatively few viable seeds, while large areas of the Great Basin are currently invaded by alien weeds. This could result in dissimilarity in floristic composition between the above-ground vegetative community and the soil seed bank, causing abrupt plant community shifts following disturbance. Therefore, we asked what is the relationship in the floristic composition between the above-ground communities and the soil seed bank in sites where the threatened Ivesia webberi occurs? Location The Great Basin Desert, United States. Methods We used Dice-Sorensen's similarity index to estimate similarity between the standing vegetation and the soil seed bank. Redundancy analysis and variation partitioning were used to quantify the relationship between the total abundance of the sampled above-ground flora and the soil seed bank, accounting for effects of spatial processes and environmental variables describing climate, soils, and vegetation in the 10 sites. Results Findings reveal high dissimilarity in species assemblage and abundance between the above-ground plant communities and the soil seed bank. Most of the dominant native plant species sampled in the standing vegetation were absent in the soil seed bank, and the soil seed bank was dominated by invasive alien weeds. Conclusions Divergence in the floristic composition between the above-ground communities and the soil seed bank in Ivesia webberi habitat indicates low resilience and high risk of native species loss following perturbation. Post-disturbance succession in these plant communities may be largely dominated by invasive annual species; therefore, reduction of invasive species and native plant seeding may be necessary to sustain the ecological legacies of the desert ecosystem.		[Borokini, Israel T.] Univ Nevada, Dept Biol, Program Ecol Evolut & Conservat Biol, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Weisberg, Peter J.] Univ Nevada, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Peacock, Mary M.] Univ Nevada, Dept Biol, Reno, NV 89557 USA; [Borokini, Israel T.] Univ Nevada, Dept Biol, Program Ecol Evolut & Conservat Biol, Reno, NV 89557 USA								5							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000593469100001		
J	Polain, Katherine; Knox, Oliver; Wilson, Brian; Pereg, Lily								Subsoil Microbial Diversity and Stability in Rotational Cotton Systems								SOIL SYSTEMS				4	3					44	10.3390/soilsystems4030044			SEP 2020	2020	Microbial diversity has been well documented for the top 0-0.30 m of agricultural soils. However, spatio-temporal research into subsoil microbial diversity and the effects of agricultural management remains limited. Soil type may influence subsoil microbial diversity, particularly Vertosols. These soils lack distinct horizons and are known to facilitate the downward movement of organic matter, potentially supporting subsoil microbiota, removed from the crop root system (i.e., bulk soils). Our research used the MiSeq Illumina Platform to investigate microbial diversity down the profile of an agricultural Australian Vertosol to 1.0 m in bulk soils, as influenced by crop system (continuous cotton and cotton-maize) and sample time (pre- and in-crop samples collected over two seasons). Overall, both alpha- (Chao1, Gini-Simpson Diversity and Evenness indices) and beta-diversity (nMDS and Sorensen's Index of Similarity) metrics indicated that both bacterial (16S) diversity and fungal (ITS) diversity decreased with increasing soil depth. The addition of a maize rotation did not significantly influence alpha-diversity metrics until 0.70-1.0 m depth in the soil, where bacterial diversity was significantly higher in this system, with beta-diversity measures indicating this is likely due to root system differences influencing dissolved organic carbon. Sample time did not significantly affect bacterial or fungal diversity over the two seasons, regardless of the crop type and status (i.e., crop in ground and post crop). The relatively stable subsoil fungal and overall microbial diversity in bulk soils over two crop seasons suggests that these microbiota have developed a tolerance to prolonged agricultural management.		[Polain, Katherine; Knox, Oliver; Wilson, Brian; Pereg, Lily] Univ New England, Fac Sci Agr Business & Law, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia; [Wilson, Brian] Univ New England, NSW Dept Planning Ind & Environm, Sci Div, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia; [Polain, Katherine] Univ New England, Fac Sci Agr Business & Law, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia								4							Soil Science	WOS:000578182800001		
J	Yousefi, Saideh; Zahraei-Ramazani, Ali Reza; Rassi, Yavar; Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza; Yaghoobi-Ershadi, Mohammad Reza; Aghaei-Afshar, Abbas; Akhavan, Amir Ahmad; Amin, Masoumeh; Paksa, Azim								Diversity of Phlebotomine sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae) in mountainous and plain areas of an endemic focus of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis in Iran								ASIAN PACIFIC JOURNAL OF TROPICAL BIOMEDICINE				10	5			201	207		10.4103/2221-1691.281463			MAY 2020	2020	Objective: To determine the diversity of sand flies in different biotopes of mountainous and plain areas of Bam County as the most infected focus of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis in southeast Iran, and synanthropic index of Phlebotomus sergenti Parrot, and Phlebotomus papatasi Scopoli as the main vectors of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Iran. Methods: Sand flies were captured once a month using sticky traps in domestic, peri-domestic, agricultural, and sylvatic biotopes in the plain and mountainous areas. Alpha diversity indices, including richness, evenness, Shannon-Wiener; beta diversity indices (Jaccard's and Sorensen's similarity indices) and synanthropic index were calculated. Results: A total of 2 664 specimens of 9 sand fly species were collected from mountainous (47%) and plain (53%) areas. Species richness, species evenness, and Shannon-Wiener indices were obtained as 9, 0.637, and 1.399, respectively in the mountainous area. Phlebotomus sergenti and Phlebotomus papatasi were constant species with the synanthropic index of -18.463 and -29.412, respectively. In addition, species richness, species evenness, and Shannon-Wiener indices were 4, 0.690, and 0.956, respectively in the plain area. Phlebotomus sergenti and Phlebotomus papatasi were dominant species with the synanthropic index of +9.695 and +36.207, respectively. Similarity indices were low among different biotopes of plain and mountainous areas. Conclusions: A basic knowledge about the diversity of sand flies in various biotopes is essential to design sound control programs. Biodiversity and synanthropic indices of sand flies are different in plain and mountainous areas due to the difference in biotic and abiotic factors between the two areas.		[Yousefi, Saideh; Zahraei-Ramazani, Ali Reza; Rassi, Yavar; Yaghoobi-Ershadi, Mohammad Reza; Akhavan, Amir Ahmad; Amin, Masoumeh] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Tehran, Iran; [Yousefi, Saideh] Sirjan Fac Med Sci, Sirjan, Iran; [Aflatoonian, Mohammad Reza] Kerman Univ Med Sci, Res Ctr Trop & Infect Dis, Kerman, Iran; [Aghaei-Afshar, Abbas] Kerman Univ Med Sci, Leishmaniasis Res Ctr, Kerman, Iran; [Paksa, Azim] Tabriz Univ Med Sci, Dept Parasitol, Fac Med, Tabriz, Iran; [Zahraei-Ramazani, Ali Reza] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Tehran, Iran								4							Tropical Medicine	WOS:000530282000002		
J	Ruiz V, Rosalba; Saab R, Heidy Paola								Floristic diversity of the tropical dry forest in the lower and middle Sinu subregion, Cordoba, Colombia								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				68	1			167	179					MAR 2020	2020	Introduction: The Tropical Dry Forest (TDF) is one of the most threatened ecosystems, in Colombia it has the greater extension in the Caribbean region, undergoing continuous transformation, causing the reduction of its coverage. Objective: To characterize the floristic diversity in terms of composition and structure in six TDF fragments in the lower and middle Sinu subregions of the Department of Cordoba. Methods: The methodology of Rapid Vegetation Sampling Plots - modified RAP was followed. Wealth and abundance were determined, The Importance Value Index by species and family, diametric and altimetric classes were constructed and the Fisher's alpha Diversity Index and Sorensen's Similarity Index were calculated. Results: 1 336 individuals were registered, grouped into 68 families, 161 genera and 273 species in the middle Sinu and 2 178 individuals (226 species / 151 genera / 59families) in the lower Sinu The most important families by species richness were Fabaceae. Rubiaceae and Bignoniaceae, the highest abundance values were found in Fabaceae. Capparaceae and in the species Astronium graveolens Jacq. and Capparidastrum frondosum (Jacq.) Cornejo & Iltis. The distribution by diametric and altimetric classes presented an inverted J behavior. The bushes represented the dominant growth habit. Attalea butyracea (Mutis ex L.f ) Wess.Boer, Cavanillesia platanifolia (Humb. & Bonpl.) Kunth and Sterculia apetala (Jacq.) H.Karst. recorded the highest values of importance. Conclusions: The forests studied presented the floristic composition that characterizes the TDF in Colombia. The information obtained contributes to the integral management of the Tropical Dry Forest in Cordoba.		[Ruiz V, Rosalba; Saab R, Heidy Paola] Univ Cordoba, Grp Invest Bot, Dept Biol, Monteria, Colombia; [Ruiz V, Rosalba] Univ Cordoba, Grp Invest Bot, Dept Biol, Monteria, Colombia								1							Biology	WOS:000532578400013		
J	Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba; Martin, Tchamba; Zapfack, Louis; Cedric, Djomo Chimi; Frederick, Mairong Nsakii; Sonke, Bonaventure								Vascular epiphytes loss in exploited trees of the semi deciduous managed forest of Ndelele, East Cameroon								JOURNAL OF SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY				38	7			670	685		10.1080/10549811.2019.1602056			2019	2019	Forest Management Unit (FMU) is a growing phenomenon in Cameroon, impacting biodiversity negatively. This study was initiated to assess vascular epiphytes' species loss on exploited trees to suggest conservation strategies. We hypothesized that: 1) epiphyte loss in this managed forest was significantly high and different with respect to phorophyte species; 2) epiphyte diversity loss has threatened status. Epiphyte survey was conducted on four most exploited trees in this study area. 63 exploited trees (Phorophytes) were surveyed. Shannon, Chao1 and Sorensen's similarity indexes were used. Kruskal-wallis test was used to test the hypotheses. We recorded (70 epiphyte species, 33 genera and 12 families). Orchidaceae constituted highest epiphyte species with 43 species (61.4%). Epiphytes diversity was similar with respect to different phorophyte species (Sorensen > 50%). Shannon's index (3.36) showed a high epiphyte diversity loss. Kruskal-wallis showed no significant difference in epiphyte loss between phorophytes but a significant difference between zones, with canopies losing the highest epiphytes. With one epiphyte species' status almost threatened and epiphyte diversity loss (significant); strict sustainable conservation methods like: epiphyte shade-houses and relocation are solicited. More data are needed from similar and different managed forest strata for epiphyte conservation policy enactment in Cameroon.		[Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba; Martin, Tchamba] Univ Dschang, Lab Environm Geomat, Fac Agron & Agr Sci, Dept Forestry, Dschang, Cameroon; [Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba; Zapfack, Louis; Cedric, Djomo Chimi] Univ Yaounde I, Fac Sci, Lab Systemat & Ecol, Dept Plant Biol, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba] Univ Yaounde I, Higher Teachers Training Coll, Dept Biol, Plant Systemat & Ecol Lab, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Cedric, Djomo Chimi; Sonke, Bonaventure] Inst Agr Res Dev IRAD, Bertoua, Cameroon; [Frederick, Mairong Nsakii] Univ Dschang, Soil Sci Lab, Dept Soil Sci, Dschang, Cameroon; [Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba] Univ Dschang, Lab Environm Geomat, Fac Agron & Agr Sci, Dept Forestry, Dschang, Cameroon; [Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba] Univ Yaounde I, Fac Sci, Lab Systemat & Ecol, Dept Plant Biol, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Nfornkah, Barnabas Neba] Univ Yaounde I, Higher Teachers Training Coll, Dept Biol, Plant Systemat & Ecol Lab, Yaounde, Cameroon								3							Forestry	WOS:000478054400004		
J	Rahman, I. U.; Hart, R.; Afzal, A.; Iqbal, Z.; Ijaz, F.; Abd Allah, E. F.; Ali, N.; Khan, S. M.; Alqarawi, A. A.; Alsubeie, M. S.; Bussmann, R. W.								A NEW ETHNOBIOLOGICAL SIMILARITY INDEX FOR THE EVALUATION OF NOVEL USE REPORTS								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				17	2			2765	2777		10.15666/aeer/1702_27652777			2019	2019	Similarity Indices are widely applied in the field of ecology to measure species diversity as well as to map patterns of conservation and monitor threats to biodiversity. Among the known, Jaccard's and Sorensen's indices are the most frequently employed similarity Indices. Here, we propose a new and efficient statistical approach in the field of ethnobiology and validate its efficacy by comparing the results with predefined similarity Indices used in previous studies. The core objective was to propose a new index for quantitative ethnobiological analyses and to find out solutions for sorting the plants having similar ethnobiological uses in allied, aligned, national and global regions; as the pre-existing indices like Jaccard's and Sorensen's indices provides best estimates in the field of ecology but not in ethnobiological studies. In comparative ethnobiological studies, ethnobiologists use conventional ecological tools for evaluation of similarities and dissimilarities. Our proposed similarity index is based on the quantification of similar uses of common medicinal plants via comparing present study with previously published reports from various areas where, the author(s) have used the Sorensen's index and/or Jaccard's index. To assess the significance and validity of this newly developed index, similarities and differences in ethnomedicinal studies on medicinal plants in different regions were evaluated. Data regarding medicinal plants usage here was compared with 20 previously published studies and then analyzed through preexisting indices as well as Rahman's index to examine the novelty in the study. Our preliminary results revealed noteworthy coherence with the existing similarity indices, albeit, the new index was more efficient than the previous. Our comparison revealed, that as far as common vegetation and floral levels are concerned, the existing ecological coefficients of similarity are efficient and precise; but for similarities in the field of medicinal plant studies certain constraints are overcome by the proposed similarity index. Inferences derived from Rahman's similarity index (RSI) are as reliable as the previously known and well-established similarity indices. Further, RSI specifically targets the ethnobiological similarities, a limitation in Jaccard's and Sorensen's indices. Thus, RSI would be a useful tool/index in the assessment of rigorous quantitative ethnobiological data.		[Rahman, I. U.; Afzal, A.; Iqbal, Z.; Ijaz, F.; Ali, N.] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, KP, Pakistan; [Rahman, I. U.; Hart, R.] Missouri Bot Garden, William Brown Ctr, POB 299, St Louis, MO 63166 USA; [Abd Allah, E. F.; Alqarawi, A. A.] King Saud Univ, Coll Food & Agr Sci, Dept Plant Prod, POB 2460, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Khan, S. M.] Quaid I Azam Univ, Dept Plant Sci, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Alsubeie, M. S.] Al Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic Univ, Coll Sci, Biol Dept, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Bussmann, R. W.] Ilia State Univ, Inst Bot, Dept Ethnobot, 1 Bot St, GE-0105 Tbilisi, Georgia; [Afzal, A.] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, KP, Pakistan; [Khan, S. M.] Quaid I Azam Univ, Dept Plant Sci, Islamabad, Pakistan								17							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000462830400087		
J	Scudeller, Veridiana Vizoni; Vegas-Vilarrubia, Teresa								Distribution and -diversity of tree species in igapo forests (Negro River basin, Brazilian Amazon)								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				29	6			1052	1064		10.1111/jvs.12680			NOV 2018	2018	Questions How are the tree species of the periodically flooded black water forest distributed along the Negro River basin (igapo)? Can we classify the tree communities into similarity groups? Are oligarchic species present? Methods We analysed available data on tree species composition in vegetation plots located in the Negro River basin (igapo forests) in Brazil and built a similarity matrix based on Sorensen's similarity index. We applied principal coordinates analysis, established community groups (a posteriori) and applied both multi-response permutation procedures and indicator species analysis. Results Among 19 surveys conducted in igapo forests, at least 604 woody taxa were recognized, and 384 taxa were identified to species level. Igapo tree species were not as frequent or abundant as were other tree species of the Amazon upland forest, although they were widely distributed in other forest types. The Sorensen similarity index was low (S-s = 0.16). Generally, the highest similarity values were recorded between surveys that were spatially close. The multivariate analyses suggested the existence of a strong vegetation gradient along the Negro River. The two groups established a posteriori showed 25 species with an indicator value (IV) >50%, and 68 species presented IndValues in both groups. Conclusions Our results show a strong turnover of tree species replacement along the course of the Negro River, with 57.5% of species restricted to one survey of occurrence. This trend is particularly notable from the point at which the Branco River strongly discharges into the Negro River. No species show high values for range distribution or local abundance, although four were considered moderately frequent. The upper parts of the main rivers have indicator species that are less frequent downstream.		[Scudeller, Veridiana Vizoni] Univ Fed Amazonas, Inst Ciencias Biol, Dept Biol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Vegas-Vilarrubia, Teresa] Univ Barcelona, Fac Biol, Dept Evolutionary Biol Ecol & Environm Sci, Barcelona, Spain; [Scudeller, Veridiana Vizoni] Univ Fed Amazonas, Inst Ciencias Biol, Dept Biol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								5							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000454200200010		
J	Aguilar-Luna, Jesus Mao E.; Manuel Loeza-Corte, Juan; Garcia-Villanueva, Eduardo; Hernandez-Fernandez, Luis A.								Arboreal vegetation structure and diversity in the gallery forest of the Xaltatempa river, Puebla, Mexico								MADERA Y BOSQUES				24	3					UNSP e2431616	10.21829/myb.2018.2431616			FAL 2018	2018	Gallery forests are plant formations that develop parallel to rivers. They possess a great plant diversity; whose arboreal species are indicative of water quality. Here are described the variables of the arboreal plant life and their relationship with the water quality of the Xaltatempa river, Puebla, Mexico. To do this, six sampling units were established, each 1000 m(2), separated by 2 km, where all the trees and shrubs were measured and identified in order to generate information regarding: importance value index (IVI), forestry value index (FVI), Shannon-Weaver heterogeneity index (H'), and Sorensen's similarity index (SSI). Additionally, river water samples were taken to determine its main chemical characteristics. The results indicated a statistical difference between sites (alpha <= 0.05), where the most important species, given its dominance, density, and frequency, was Platanus mexicana (IVI=182.71); it was also the most important for its diameter, height, and cover (FVI=300.00). Specific richness (H'=0.54) was found in only six species: Alnus acuminata, Ligustrum japonicum, Parathesis serrulata, Pinus patula, Platanus mexicana, and Quercus rugosa. With regard to SSI, the paired combination of sites 4 (1586 m asl) and 5 (1536 m asl) matched the following species: Alnus acuminata, Ligustrum japonicum, and Platanus mexicana (SSI=1.00). The structure (fragmented) and diversity (very low) of the arboreal plat life of the gallery forest evidence the changes in its composition, without any negative effects on water quality for its exploitation.		[Aguilar-Luna, Jesus Mao E.; Hernandez-Fernandez, Luis A.] Benemerita Univ Autonoma Puebla, Complejo Reg Norte Sede Tetela, Puebla, Mexico; [Manuel Loeza-Corte, Juan] Univ Canada, Ingn Agroind, Oaxaca, Mexico; [Garcia-Villanueva, Eduardo] Colegio Postgrad, Texcoco, Estado De Mexic, Mexico; [Aguilar-Luna, Jesus Mao E.] Benemerita Univ Autonoma Puebla, Complejo Reg Norte Sede Tetela, Puebla, Mexico								4							Forestry	WOS:000456795900011		
J	Sudeep, Chandra; Ankit, Singh; Singh, C. P.; Nautiyal, M. C.; Rawat, L. S.								Vascular plants distribution in relation to topography and environmental variables in alpine zone of Kedarnath Wild Life Sanctuary, West Himalaya								JOURNAL OF MOUNTAIN SCIENCE				15	9			1936	1949		10.1007/s11629-017-4738-8			SEP 2018	2018	The present study was carried out in Tungnath alpine meadows of Kedarnath Wild Life Sanctuary, Western Himalaya from subalpine to upper alpine zone. A total of four summits were selected along an altitudinal gradient and sampled for detailed vegetation analysis using multi summit approach as per Global observation research initiative in alpine environments (GLORIA). Species richness, diversity, and evenness among four summits as well as the interaction between environmental variables with plant communities were assessed. Monthly mean soil temperature was calculated using data retrieved from geo-precision temperature logger in order to identify the trend of soil temperature among different season and altitudinal gradient and its implications to plant communities. Soil samples were analyzed from each summit by collecting randomized composite soil samples. The indirect non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) and direct canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) tools of ordination techniques to determine the linkage between plant species from various sample summits and biotic/abiotic environmental gradients were used in the present study. The results of the study demonstrated increase in species richness as soil temperature increases, the ecotone representing summits were found most warm summits followed by highest species richness. Annual soil temperature increased by 1.43 degrees C at timberline ecotone. Whereas, at upper alpine zone the soil temperature increased by 0.810C from year 2015 to 2016. SOrensen's similarity index was found to be increased between subalpine and upper alpine zone with increase in the presence of subalpine plant species at upper alpine zone. Both the ordination tools separate the subalpine summit and their respective vegetation from summits representing timberline ecotone and upper alpine zone. Soil pH, altitude, soil cation exchange capacity were found as the key abiotic drivers for distribution of plant species.		[Sudeep, Chandra; Ankit, Singh; Nautiyal, M. C.] HNB Garhwal Univ, HAPPRC, Srinagar 246174, Uttarakhand, India; [Singh, C. P.] Indian Space Res Org Ahmedabad, Ctr Space Applicat, Ahmadabad 380015, Gujarat, India; [Rawat, L. S.] Govind Ballabh Pant Natl Inst Himalayan Environm, Garhwal Unit, Srinagar 246174, Uttarakhand, India; [Sudeep, Chandra] HNB Garhwal Univ, HAPPRC, Srinagar 246174, Uttarakhand, India								9							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000443996500007		
J	Merder, Julian; Freund, Jan A.; Meysick, Lukas; Simkanin, Christina; O'Riordan, Ruth M.; Power, Anne Marie								East-west spatial groupings in intertidal communities, environmental drivers and key species								JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM				98	2			423	435		10.1017/S0025315416001442			MAR 2018	2018	The rocky intertidal communities of Ireland contain a mix of cold- and warm-adapted species, however the spatial distribution of these communities has not been investigated in a systematic way. Based on a benthic community dataset collected in 2003 at 63 sites, several statistical analyses were combined with the aims of (i) detecting groups of similar communities and their spatial arrangement, (ii) relating these groups to environmental factors and (iii) identifying the species that drive the different community groups. SOrensen's index suggested two marine community groups, one of the east and south-east (termed 'east') and the other in the west, south-west and north (termed 'west'). A second partition based on combined wave exposure and sea surface chlorophyll comprised four groups, as did a further partition based on combined sea surface and air temperatures. The spatial arrangement of wave height plus chlorophyll conditions agreed reasonably well with the binary marine community partition, but the temperature partition did not. The east' community appeared to be associated with low wave height and chlorophyll conditions. The species that were most influential to the 'east' community were Balanus crenatus, Austrominius modestus and Fucus vesiculosus. The 'west' sites were associated with high wave height/low chlorophyll (with some variation in this due to local shelter) and the species Paracentrotus lividus, Chthamalus stellatus, Alaria esculenta and Himanthalia elongata. A longitudinal pattern rather than one associated with latitude was evident in this marine community and local drivers rather than temperature clines appeared most important for the dominant community patterns.		[Merder, Julian; Freund, Jan A.; Meysick, Lukas] Carl von Ossietzky Univ Oldenburg, Inst Chem & Biol Marine Environm, Oldenburg, Niedersachsen, Germany; [Simkanin, Christina] Smithsonian Environm Res Ctr, POB 28, Edgewater, MD 21037 USA; [O'Riordan, Ruth M.] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Distillery Fields, Cork, Ireland; [Power, Anne Marie] Natl Univ Ireland Galway, Martin Ryan Inst, Galway, Ireland; [Power, Anne Marie] Natl Univ Ireland Galway, Martin Ryan Inst, Galway, Ireland								3							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000426876800019		
J	Karuniyanti, Diah Eres Dwi; Santosa, Yanto; Sugiharti, Windi								Bird Species Diversity in Various Land Covers in Oil Palm Plantation of PT GSIP, Central Kalimantan								AIP Conference Proceedings				2019						040007	10.1063/1.5061877			2018	2018	The diversity of birds is strongly influenced by the type of land cover. Oil palm plantations have been confirmed to change the type of land cover from what were once secondary forest, shrubs, and/or open land into palm trees with various age classes. Therefore, it is very interesting to examine the variations of bird species diversity under the different types of land cover. This research was conducted using a transect method (length 1 km and width 100 m) over various types of land cover: young, medium, and old-aged oil palm trees, secondary forest, shrubs, and high conservation value (HCV) area. Observation took place in the morning and evening with five replications. Types of data recorded at the time of observation consisted of bird species and number of individuals. The data obtained were analysed using the Margalef index and Sorensen's similarity index. The total number of bird species found in all land cover types amounted to 37 species from 22 families. The HCV area had the highest species number (21) and highest species diversity index (4.55), while the lowest diversity index was found in the old-aged oil palm plantation (2.72). Old-aged and medium-aged oil palms showed similar bird species compositions (similarity index of 0.89).		[Karuniyanti, Diah Eres Dwi; Santosa, Yanto; Sugiharti, Windi] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Ecol & Wildlife Management Div, Forest Resource Conservat & Ecotourism Dept, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia; [Karuniyanti, Diah Eres Dwi] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Ecol & Wildlife Management Div, Forest Resource Conservat & Ecotourism Dept, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia				9th International Conference on Global Resource Conservation (ICGRC) and AJI from Ritsumeikan University	MAR 07-08, 2018	Peningkatan Publikasi Karya Ilmiah Dosen; Brawijaya Univ, Green Campus Program	Malang City, INDONESIA	0							Physics, Applied	WOS:000481577800041		
J	Santosa, Yanto; Rejeki, Sani Sari Sri								Variation of Herpetofauna in Different Land Cover Types in PT ASMR Oil Palm Plantation, Central Kalimantan Province								AIP Conference Proceedings				2019						060003	10.1063/1.5061912			2018	2018	The oil palm industry is an important contributor to the world vegetable oil market and Indonesia is one of the major exporters globally. Changes in land use to become more monocultural cause concerns among the world community for the preservation of wildlife, including herpetofauna. The objectives of this research were to identify the species number, richness, evenness and also the species composition differences of herpetofauna in each land cover. Herpetofauna species were observed using visual encounter survey (VES) modified with a line transect method over various types of land cover; youngest and oldest oil palm, shrubs and high conservation value forest (HCVF) areas. Observation started at 7 p.m. lasted until 9 p.m. The observation was repeated three times simultaneously. Types of data recorded at the time of observation consisted of herpetofauna species and number of individuals. The data obtained were analyzed using Margalef's index and Sorensen's similarity index. The total number of herpetofauna species found in all land cover types amounted to 14 species (seven amphibians and seven reptiles). The HCVF area had the highest species number (9), species diversity index (2.65) and evenness index (0.88). While the shrubs area had the lowest species number (4) and diversity index (0.99). The results showed there is a correlation between land cover and diversity of herpetofauna.		[Santosa, Yanto; Rejeki, Sani Sari Sri] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Conservat & Ecotourism, Wildlife Ecol & Management Div, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia; [Santosa, Yanto] Bogor Agr Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Conservat & Ecotourism, Wildlife Ecol & Management Div, Bogor, West Java, Indonesia				9th International Conference on Global Resource Conservation (ICGRC) and AJI from Ritsumeikan University	MAR 07-08, 2018	Peningkatan Publikasi Karya Ilmiah Dosen; Brawijaya Univ, Green Campus Program	Malang City, INDONESIA	0							Physics, Applied	WOS:000481577800076		
J	Longman, Emily K.; Rosenblad, Kyle; Sax, Dov F.								Extreme homogenization: The past, present and future of mammal assemblages on islands								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				27	1			77	95		10.1111/geb.12677			JAN 2018	2018	Aim: We documented how the similarity of mammal assemblages on continental and oceanic islands has changed since initial human colonization, since European arrival and overall. We investigated how levels of similarity might change in the future. Location: Continental and oceanic islands worldwide. Time period: Human settlement of islands to the present, as well as projections for the future. Major taxa studied: Mammals. Methods: We used mammal occurrence data on islands to calculate the change in similarity using a pairwise approach based on Jaccard's index and a multisite approach based on Jaccard's and Sorensen's measures. We divided the mammal assemblages into two time periods, before and after island colonization or trade began with Europeans. We unpacked the mechanisms driving changes in similarity, exploring how initial similarity interacts with seven types of species turnover events to determine overall change. Finally, we calculated how future similarity levels will change if past trends in introductions and extinctions continue. Results: Mammals, on both continental and oceanic islands, show one of the most pronounced cases of homogenization ever observed, and on oceanic islands mammals show the largest increase in homogenization ever observed for a terrestrial group. Most of the homogenization observed to date has been driven by recent historical changes, not by changes that occurred before European arrival. If current patterns of species introductions and extinctions continue, then oceanic islands will experience little additional homogenization, whereas continental islands will homogenize greatly beyond current levels. Main conclusions: Mammal assemblages on oceanic islands show nearly an order of magnitude greater change in similarity than plant and bird assemblages. Projections of future similarity indicate that continental and oceanic islands are on different trajectories of change. These trajectories could be altered by management actions, but in some cases those actions that would be impactful run counter to current conservation norms.		[Longman, Emily K.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Evolut & Ecol, 2320 Storer Hall,One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Rosenblad, Kyle; Sax, Dov F.] Brown Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Providence, RI 02912 USA; [Longman, Emily K.] Univ Calif Davis, Dept Evolut & Ecol, 2320 Storer Hall,One Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA								26							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000418125800009		
J	Silva, Julia dos Santos; Caranha, Lindemberg; Moura Santos, Fabricio Kassio; dos Santos, Antonio Pereira; Rodrigues da Silva, Luiz Osvaldo; Rangel, Elizabeth Ferreira								Sand fly (Diptera, Psychodidae, Phlebotominae) abundance and diversity in areas affected by the Sao Francisco River transposition project in Ceara State, Brazil								PARASITES & VECTORS				10						403	10.1186/s13071-017-2333-z			AUG 29 2017	2017	Background: Entomological surveillance of sand fly vectors was carried out to support leishmaniasis prevention and control measures in areas affected by the Sao Francisco River Transposition Project. Methods: Sand flies were collected monthly between May 2011 and December 2014 in seven municipalities: Missao Velha, Brejo Santo, Lavras da Mangabeira, Iguatu, Mauriti, Jaguaribe and Jaguaretama, in dwellings, peridomicile and forest areas for three consecutive days, for a period of 12 h each day (18: 00 to 06: 00 h). Differences in species composition between sites were tested with Shannon's diversity index, the similarity between habitats was estimated by the Sorensen's qualitative similarity index and, for the most abundant species in each municipality, a standardized index of species abundance was applied. The influence of climatic factors on sand fly population densities was analyzed using Spearman's correlation coefficients. Results: A total of 214,213 sand fly specimens belonging to 18 species were captured. The most abundant species in all municipalities was Lutzomyia longipalpis (Lutz & Neiva, 1912). The municipalities of Mauriti and Missao Velha stand out in terms of high species richness, with the latter exhibiting the greatest diversity. The number of sand flies in the Iguatu, Jaguaribe and Jaguaretama municipality was higher during the rainy months, whereas the populations declined in the drier months; the sand fly population density in other municipalities (Missao Velha, Brejo Santo, Lavras de Mangabeira and Mauriti) showed negative correlation with rainfall. Conclusions: This study confirms the presence of several Leishmania spp. vectors in the seven municipalities affected by the Sao Francisco River Transposition Project, with Lu. longipalpis being the most abundant species at all study sites. Vector populations in these municipalities should be monitored, ultimately to assess the associations between environmental changes and sand fly population dynamics and leishmaniasis transmission risk.		[Silva, Julia dos Santos; Rangel, Elizabeth Ferreira] Fiocruz MS, Inst Oswaldo Cruz, Lab Interdisciplinar Vigilancia Entomol Diptera &, Av Brasil 4365, BR-21040360 Manguinho, RJ, Brazil; [Caranha, Lindemberg; Moura Santos, Fabricio Kassio; dos Santos, Antonio Pereira; Rodrigues da Silva, Luiz Osvaldo] Secretaria Saude Estado Ceara, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Silva, Julia dos Santos] Fiocruz MS, Inst Oswaldo Cruz, Lab Interdisciplinar Vigilancia Entomol Diptera &, Av Brasil 4365, BR-21040360 Manguinho, RJ, Brazil								3							Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000408864200004		
J	Santander-de Leon, Sheila Mae S.; Nunal, Sharon N.; Wei, Hongyi; Yoshikawa, Takeshi; Maeda, Hiroto								Bacterial community composition shifts in sediments influenced by fish feeds								AQUACULTURE RESEARCH				48	8			4380	4389		10.1111/are.13261			AUG 2017	2017	This study investigated the influence of fish feed deposition on the microbial community of sediments in a coastal lake. Microcosms were designed to simulate the addition of fish feeds to the sediment, and physicochemical factors as well as composition of microbial assemblages were analysed. Although total organic carbon and total organic nitrogen did not significantly increase, redox potential and total sulphides showed a transition of sediment environments into anaerobic condition due to the addition of fish feeds. The bacterial community composition shifted with fish feed deposition as revealed by the band profiles of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, SOrensen's similarity indices and cell numbers of sulphate-reducing bacteria. Occurrence of anaerobic bacteria (sulphate and nitrate reducers) and disappearance of strictly aerobic bacteria were observed with fish feed inputs. The results clarify the succession of the microbial flora and suggest negative impact of uneaten fish feeds on the microbial community in sediment and resultant environmental deterioration of fish-farming areas.		[Santander-de Leon, Sheila Mae S.] Univ Philippines Visayas, Coll Fisheries & Ocean Sci, Inst Marine Fisheries & Oceanol, Iloilo, Philippines; [Nunal, Sharon N.] Univ Philippines Visayas, Coll Fisheries & Ocean Sci, Inst Fish Proc & Technol, Iloilo, Philippines; [Wei, Hongyi; Yoshikawa, Takeshi; Maeda, Hiroto] Kagoshima Univ, Fac Fisheries, Educ & Res Ctr Marine Resource & Environm, 4-50-20 Shimoarata, Kagoshima, Japan; [Yoshikawa, Takeshi] Kagoshima Univ, Fac Fisheries, Educ & Res Ctr Marine Resource & Environm, 4-50-20 Shimoarata, Kagoshima, Japan								6							Fisheries	WOS:000404982300036		
J	Ghate, Sudeep Darbhe; Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah								Endophytic aquatic hyphomycetes in roots of riparian tree species of two Western Ghat streams								SYMBIOSIS				71	3			233	240		10.1007/s13199-016-0435-6			MAR 2017	2017	Bubble chamber incubation of surface sterilized segments of root bark and xylem of 10 riparian tree species of the Sampaje (475-500 m asl) and VE 1/4 Badaga (765-800 m asl) stream reaches of the Western Ghats yielded 20 species of endophytic aquatic hyphomycetes. Anguillospora crassa, A. longissima and Cylindrocarpon sp. were among the top five species in streams. A two-way ANOVA showed significantly higher species richness and counts of conidium in the tree species of Sampaje compared to VE 1/4 Badaga (p < 0.001), while two variables were not significantly different between bark and xylem. The total number of species recovered was slightly higher in bark than in xylem (14-19 vs. 13-17 spp.) and the average species richness between tissues did not differ significantly except for one tree species (Madhuca neriifolia: p < 0.05). The release of conidia from bark of only three tree species was significantly higher than from xylem (M. neriifolia and Canarium strictum: p < 0.05; Vateria indica: p < 0.01). Sorensen's similarity index for bark as well as xylem between tree species was higher in Sampaje stream than in VE 1/4 Badaga stream (0.45-0.78 vs. 0.25-0.61). The diversity of aquatic hyphomycetes in bark and xylem was higher in the trees of Sampaje than VE 1/4 Badaga (3.1-3.3 vs. 2.7). A cluster analysis of aquatic hyphomycetes in bark and xylem resulted in two groups coinciding with the two streams. The results of this study revealed that assemblage and diversity of endophytic aquatic hyphomycetes in riparian tree roots are high in the mid-altitude Sampaje stream as previously documented for saprotrophic aquatic hyphomycetes.		[Ghate, Sudeep Darbhe; Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah] Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalore 574199, Karnataka, India; [Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah] Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalore 574199, Karnataka, India								7							Microbiology	WOS:000395021100007		
J	Albuquerque, J. A. A.; Santos, T. S.; Castro, T. S.; Melo, V. F.; Rocha, P. R. R.								WEED INCIDENCE AFTER SOYBEAN HARVEST IN NO-TILL AND CONVENTIONAL TILLAGE CROPROTATION SYSTEMS IN RORAIMA'S CERRADO								PLANTA DANINHA				35						e017162796	10.1590/S0100-83582017350100034			2017	2017	The goal of this study was to evaluate the occurrence of weeds after soybean harvest in rotational systems of no-till and conventional tillage in the savannah of Roraima, Brazil. Two simultaneous experiments were conducted in adjacent areas, the first one with no-till soil management system and the second one with the conventional system, with crop rotations for five agricultural years: pearlmillet (2007/2008), soybean (2008/2009), maize (2009/2010), cowpea with maize (2010/2011), soybean (2011/2012) and maize (2012/2013). The used experimental design was the randomized block one with 28 plots, sized 3 x 15 m (45 m(2)) distributed in 4 blocks. In May 2010, the combined sowing of cowpea and maize was performed, and later, during the same month of 2011 soybean was sown. Thirty days after harvesting, weeds were collected. The botanical classification of species was performed by classes, families, scientific and popular names, as well as comparisons with specialized bibliographies. The evaluated phyto-sociological parameters were: relative frequency (FRR), relative density (DRR), dominance (Do), importance value index (IVI), Sorensen's similarity index (SI), numbers of individuals (ha(-1)) and dry mass (%). Among the 37 species found in both planting systems, 60% belonged to the Liliopsida class; Fabaceae and Malvaceae stood out. However, Poaceae, belonging to the Magnoliopsida class, had the highest number of species in both systems. Most weed species were common in both systems.		[Albuquerque, J. A. A.; Santos, T. S.; Castro, T. S.; Melo, V. F.; Rocha, P. R. R.] Univ Fed Roraima, Parceria EMBRAPA RR, Programa Posgrad Agron, Boa Vista, RR, Brazil; [Albuquerque, J. A. A.] Univ Fed Roraima, Parceria EMBRAPA RR, Programa Posgrad Agron, Boa Vista, RR, Brazil								4							Plant Sciences	WOS:000409405000001		
J	Strzeleczek, L.; Jedrzejczyk-Korycinska, M.; Piecuch, I.; Rostanski, A.								THE REMNANTS OF MID-FOREST IRON ORE EXCAVATIONS AS A REFUGE FOR LOCAL DIVERSITY IN THE VASCLUAR PLANT FLORA								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				15	4			1541	1563		10.15666/aeer/1504_15411563			2017	2017	Former excavation remnants can play a significant role in increasing the species richness and local biodiversity on heavily altered, post-industrial sites. In this article we examined 30 plots - mounds and areas surrounding mounds to evaluate the influence of different key factors on floristic composition, including selected edaphic parameters (pH, EC, organic matter, CaCO3 and content of metals: Pb, Cd, Zn, Fe). We also tested the species-area correlations. Additionally, we assessed basic characteristics of plant species, which inhabit those plots, measuring species richness and biodiversity with Shannon-Weiner index (H') and also estimating the similarities in species composition between mounds and the surrounding areas, using Sorensen's index (S-o). In result, we noted 92 vascular plant species, with mostly native origin (98%). Based on the performed analysis, mounds which were studied had slightly higher values of mean species richness and species diversity compared to the surrounding area. Contribution of socio-ecological groups showed, that, mounds were inhabited predominantly by forest species from Querco-Fagetea and Vaccinio-Piceetea classes. Analyses of collected soil samples indicated strong influence of pH and content of metals (mostly zinc, lead and iron) in relation to the floristic composition on the examined plots. Unique characteristics of soil samples taken from the studied plots can explain the distinct preferences of some plant species which grow on them. This allowed to classify those structures as a refuge area, considering their positive contribution to the increase of species richness and biodiversity. Nowadays the old remnants can be also treated as a crucial part of historical and cultural heritage.		[Strzeleczek, L.; Jedrzejczyk-Korycinska, M.; Piecuch, I.; Rostanski, A.] Univ Silesia, Fac Biol & Environm Protect, Dept Bot & Nat Protect, Katowice, Poland; [Strzeleczek, L.] Univ Silesia, Fac Biol & Environm Protect, Dept Bot & Nat Protect, Katowice, Poland								1							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000419994800101		
J	Rahman, Inayat Ur; Ijaz, Farhana; Iqbal, Zafar; Afzal, Aftab; Ali, Niaz; Afzal, Muhammad; Khan, Muhammad Azhar; Muhammad, Said; Qadir, Ghulam; Asif, Muhammad								A novel survey of the ethno medicinal knowledge of dental problems in Manoor Valley (Northern Himalaya), Pakistan								JOURNAL OF ETHNOPHARMACOLOGY				194				877	894		10.1016/j.jep.2016.10.068			DEC 24 2016	2016	Ethnopharmacological relevance: In the study area, the traditional knowledge and cultural practices of utilizing medicinal plants in the human healthcare is primarily restricted to the old age members of the community, while younger generation is mostly unaware of the natural wealth usage. Aim of the study: We provide the first ever ethno medicinal insights into the management of dental disorders in Pakistan. The prime objective of the study was to explore novel knowledge of these local and remote community members and share it with rest of the world in documented form. Materials and methods: Field surveys were arranged for collection and documentation of medicinal plants of Manoor valley during 2015. Total 71 local inhabitants were interviewed randomly through questionnaire. The data obtained were quantitatively analyzed using the use value (UVi), relative frequency citations (RFCs), fidelity level index (FL%) and consensus index (CI%). For novel uses all plants were thoroughly checked with previously published articles on the same disorder and analyzed through Jaccard index (JI) and Sorensen's similarity index (QS). The collected specimens after confirmation were submitted to the Herbarium, Department of Botany, Hazara University, Mansehra, Pakistan (HUP). Results: In present study 25 plants belonging to 17 families are reported, these plants were used commonly as ethno medicine. There were herbs (64%), shrubs (20%) and trees (16%) whereas, Lamiaceae with 4 species was the leading family. Majority of medicinal plant species were used in treatment of toothache (38%), wound healing (19%), gum infections (16%) whereas and lowest percentage of species were used for mouth ulcer as well as teeth powder (3%). Leaves were the most widely part used plant part in the treatment of different diseases (36%). Dominated medicinal plants with high used values were Juglans regia (UVi=0.94), Rumex dentatus (0.89) and Indigofera heterantha (0.88). Based on the RFC values, the most valuable and cited medicinal plant species used by the traditional drivers are Juglans regia having (RFCs=0.69) and Rumex dentatus (0.58). CI results show that most respondents percentage was for Juglans regia having CI%=69%, followed by Rumex dentatus (57.7%). Medicinal plants with high fidelity level and reported for one dental disorder were Berberis lycium, Geranium wallichianum, Lathyrus aphaca, Platanus orientalis, Sedum spp. and Urtica dioica for toothache. Further, new medicinal uses of Abies pindrow, Ajuga integrifolia, Berberis lycium, Urtica dioica, Indigofera heterantha were recorded for the first time from Pakistan and Astragalus grahamianus, Corydalis cornuta, Prunella vulgaris, Ranunculus muricatus, Rumex hastatus, Stellaria media, Tag etes minuta, Taraxacum officinale and Lathyrus aphaca, across the world for the current reported medicinal uses. All mentioned plant species are reported for the first time ever for dental disorders from Manoor Valley. Nonetheless, this is a novel study as no single ethno medicinal study on dental disorder up-till now has been reported from Pakistan. Conclusion: The present study is the first ever documentation of ethno medicinal practices aiming at the dental disorders in Pakistan, which resulted in 64% of medicinal uses new claims. So, the reported species of remote valley should be further evaluated for proper experimentation and pharmacological activities to authenticate their current traditional usage. Field observation revealed vegetation of the area was generally threatened due to its unwise use by the local communities. Trends like deforestation, over grazing, habitat fragmentation and introduction of the exotic taxa were the visible threats. So conservation of such an important natural God gifted treasure is mandatory.		[Rahman, Inayat Ur; Ijaz, Farhana; Iqbal, Zafar; Afzal, Aftab; Ali, Niaz; Afzal, Muhammad; Khan, Muhammad Azhar; Muhammad, Said; Qadir, Ghulam; Asif, Muhammad] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Pakistan; [Afzal, Aftab] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Pakistan								49							Plant Sciences; Chemistry, Medicinal; Integrative & Complementary Medicine; Pharmacology & Pharmacy	WOS:000391076800092		
J	Rahman, Inayat Ur; Ijaz, Farhana; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Ali, Niaz; Khan, Shujaul Mulk								Contributions to the phytotherapies of digestive disorders: Traditional knowledge and cultural drivers of Manoor Valley, Northern Pakistan								JOURNAL OF ETHNOPHARMACOLOGY				192				30	52		10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.049			NOV 4 2016	2016	Ethno pharmacological relevance: Ethno medicinal traditional knowledge regarding the uses of indigenous medicinal plants used for various human digestive disorders are mostly known to the elder community members. As the young generation is not much aware about such vital traditional medicinal practice because they rely on elders. Aim of study: To document, accumulate and widely disseminate the massive indigenous knowledge of century's practiced therapeutic uses of medicinal plants by the local people living in this remote area. Materials and methods: A total of 63 local inhabitants (39 males and 24 females) were interviewed through a structured questionnaire. The data obtained were quantitatively analyzed through the use value (UVi), fidelity level index (FL%) and relative frequency citations (RFC5), consensus index (CI%) and informant consensus factor (Fla. For novel uses all the plants were checked with previously published articles on same disease by analyzing through Jaccard index (JI) and Sorensen's similarity index (QS). Plants specimen were preserved, mounted and labeled on the herbarium sheets, cataloged and deposited with voucher numbers in Hazara University Herbarium, Mansehra, Pakistan (HUP). Results: 44 plant species belonging to 44 genera and 28 families"were documented in the current study. These medicinal plant species were used commonly as an ethno medicine against 26 various digestive disorders out of which most frequently occurred are; stomach ache, diarrhea, indigestion, constipation and inflammation etc. Herbaceous plant species were the dominant among plants studied which were 64% of the total plants, followed by trees (20%) and shrubs (16%). Lamiaceae was the leading family among collected medicinal plant species (13.6%). Maximum medicinal plant species were used for treatment of stomach ache (11.7%), diarrhea and indigestion (10.9% each). Most widely used parts were leaves (41% citations), fruit and whole plant (12% citations each) for medication of various digestive problems by the traditional drivers. Dominated medicinal plants with most use values were Ficus carica having (UVi=0.90) and Trifolium repens (UVi=0.84). Based on the RFC values, the most cited medicinal plant species by the traditional drivers were Ficus carica (0.43) and Berberis lycium (0.41), while most respondents percentage was noticed for same plant species calculated through consensus index (CI%=42.9% and 41.3%) respectively. The medicinal plant species with highest fidelity level was of Grewia optiva, Juglans regia and Sorbaria tomentosa each cited 100% for anthelmintic, easy digestion and Diarrhea respectively. Due to representation by only single medicinal plant taxa (Nt= 1), the digestive diseases viz. cholera, colon cancer, emetic, internal injuries, kill microorganisms, Soothing, tumor and urine suppression had maximum F-IC value. The analytical result reveals that 57% of medicinal plant species were reported for the first time regarding their uses. new medicinal uses of Anaphalis contorta, Caltha palustris, Pious wallichiana, Plantago himalaica were recorded for the first time from Pakistan and Aralia cachemirica, Bupleurum longicaule, Pleurospermum stellatum, Potentilla argentea and Juglans regia across the globe for currently reported medicinal uses. Besides this, all the mentioned plant species were reported for the first time for digestive disorders from Manoor Valley as no single study up-till now has been conducted ethno medicinally. Conclusion: The present study revealed the importance to document and launch list of all the possible plants that are used in traditional medicinal practices against digestive disorders in the unexplored study area and to show the important medicinal plants for future biological, phytochemical and pharmacological experimentation regarding digestive problems. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Rahman, Inayat Ur; Ijaz, Farhana; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Ali, Niaz] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, KP, Pakistan; [Khan, Shujaul Mulk] Quaid I Azam Univ, Dept Plant Sci, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, KP, Pakistan								54							Plant Sciences; Chemistry, Medicinal; Integrative & Complementary Medicine; Pharmacology & Pharmacy	WOS:000387193000004		
J	Mahajan, Rishi; Nikitina, Anna; Nozhevnikova, Alla; Goel, Gunjan								Microbial diversity in an anaerobic digester with biogeographical proximity to geothermally active region								ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY				37	21			2694	2702		10.1080/09593330.2016.1159733			NOV 2016	2016	Anaerobic digestion of agricultural biomass or wastes can offer renewable energy, to help meet the rise in energy demands. The performance of an anaerobic digester considerably depends upon the complex interactions between bacterial and archaeal microbiome, which is greatly influenced by environmental factors. In the present study, we evaluate a microbial community of digester located at two different geographical locations, to understand whether the biogeographical proximity of a digester to a geothermally active region has any influence on microbial composition. The comparative microbial community profiling, highlights coexistence of specific bacterial and archaeal representatives (especially, Prosthecochloris sp., Conexibacter sp., Crenarchaeota isolate (Caldivirga sp.), Metallosphaera sp., Pyrobaculum sp. and Acidianus sp.) in a digester with close proximity to geothermally active region (Site I) and their absence in a digester located far-off from geothermally active region (Site II). A Sorensen's index of similarity of 83.33% and 66.66% for bacterial and archaeal community was observed in both the reactors, respectively.		[Mahajan, Rishi; Goel, Gunjan] Jaypee Univ Informat Technol, Dept Biotechnol & Bioinformat, Waknaghat 173234, Solan, India; [Nikitina, Anna; Nozhevnikova, Alla] Russian Acad Sci, Winogradsky Inst Microbiol, Biotechnol Res Ctr, 33,Bld 2,Leninsky ave, Moscow 119071, Russia; [Goel, Gunjan] Jaypee Univ Informat Technol, Dept Biotechnol & Bioinformat, Waknaghat 173234, Solan, India								5							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000383409200003		
J	Chaudron, Clemence; Chauvel, Bruno; Isselin-Nondedeu, Francis								Effects of late mowing on plant species richness and seed rain in road verges and adjacent arable fields								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				232				218	226		10.1016/j.agee.2016.03.047			SEP 16 2016	2016	Delaying the first date of mowing of road verges is frequently practised as a way of preserving or enhancing biodiversity. Although the effects of this management practice on plant species richness remains controversial, it has been demonstrated that it allows more species to set seed. While an integrated management of the weed flora is currently promoted in arable fields adjacent to road verges, delaying the mowing of these field boundaries can be questioned, especially because seed dispersal from road verges to arable fields through field margins can be increased. In this context, the study aimed to assess the potential influence of delaying the first date of mowing of berms on (1) the species richness of berm standing vegetation (BSV), (2) the number of seeds and (3) the composition of seed rains in road verges and adjacent arable fields. To this end, we surveyed. the standing vegetation and seed rain in four areas, i.e. in the berm, embankment, crop edge and field margin from a total of 252 sampling points. First, we analysed the effect of the mowing period (i.e. early or late summer) on species richness of both BSV and berm seed rain. Then, at each sample point in the four areas, we studied the variation in (i) seed abundance (i.e. number of seeds), (ii) contribution of BSV to each seed rain (i.e. Sorensen's similarity and Bray-Curtis' dissimilarity indices between the BSV and each sample point) and (iii) seed abundance of the most frequent species recorded in BSV. Our findings showed that delaying the first mowing to late summer for four years had no impact on the species richness of BSV, while it increased species number and abundance of seeds in the berm seed rain. We also demonstrated that BSV of the late mown berms contributed more to the berm seed rain, than that of early mown berms. Moreover, our results suggest that compared to early mowing, only Dactylis glomerata dispersed more seeds from the late mown berms to field margins. Regarding the most frequent weed species observed in the BSV, for example Elytrigia repens, Arrhenatherum elatius and Convolvulus arvensis, the number of seeds trapped in field margins was low except for A. elatius. Finally, under our conditions, late mowing remained inefficient in promoting plant species richness on berms, but did not represent a particular factor of weed risk in field margins. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Chaudron, Clemence; Isselin-Nondedeu, Francis] Univ Tours, UMR 7324, CNRS, CITERES,IPAPE, 33 Ave Ferdinand de Lesseps, F-37200 Tours, France; [Chauvel, Bruno] INRA, Agroecol UMR1347, 17 Rue Sully,BP 86510, F-21065 Dijon, France; [Chaudron, Clemence] Univ Tours, UMR 7324, CNRS, CITERES,IPAPE, 33 Ave Ferdinand de Lesseps, F-37200 Tours, France								16							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000384384900022		
J	Duff, Thomas J.; Chong, Derek M.; Tolhurst, Kevin G.								Indices for for the evaluation of wildfire spread simulations using contemporaneous predictions and observations of burnt area								ENVIRONMENTAL MODELLING & SOFTWARE				83				276	285		10.1016/j.envsoft.2016.05.005			SEP 2016	2016	Methods to objectively evaluate performance are critical for model development. In contrast to recent advances in wildfire simulation, there has been limited attention to evaluating fire model performance. Information to validate fire models is typically limited, commonly to a few perimeter observations at a small number of points in time. We review metrics for comparing two burnt areas at a point in time: observed and predicted. These are compared in an idealised landscape and with a case study evaluating the performance of simulations of an Australian wildfire. We assessed: Shape Deviation Index (SDI), Jaccard's coefficient, F1, Sorensen's Similarity and Area Difference Index (ADI). For decomposing fit into error components (overprediction and underprediction) we assessed the partial indices of SDI and ADI, Precision and Recall. The various metrics were evaluated for their ability to represent error and their suitability for use in model improvement frameworks. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Duff, Thomas J.; Chong, Derek M.; Tolhurst, Kevin G.] Univ Melbourne, Sch Ecosyst & Forest Sci, Fac Sci, Burnley 3121, Australia; [Duff, Thomas J.] Univ Melbourne, Sch Ecosyst & Forest Sci, Fac Sci, Burnley 3121, Australia								13							Computer Science, Interdisciplinary Applications; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000383311700024		
J	Phang, Siew-Moi; Yeong, Hui-Yin; Ganzon-Fortes, Edna T.; Lewmanomont, Khanjanapaj; Prathep, Anchana; Le Nhu Hau; Gerung, Grevo S.; Tan, Koh Siang								Marine algae of the South China Sea bordered by Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam								RAFFLES BULLETIN OF ZOOLOGY								13	59					JUN 29 2016	2016	Although the South China Sea (SCS) is one of the most productive marine ecoregions in the world, there is no report of marine algae covering this wide area. We here provide the first checklist of marine algae from the SCS, bordered by Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. A total of 1,442 species including subspecies and varieties in 96 families were compiled in this checklist; 119 species in 12 families for Cyanophyta, 305 species in 22 families for Chlorophyta, 258 species in 14 families for Ochrophyta and 730 species in 48 families for Rhodophyta. Marine algal flora, compared using the Sorensen's Similarity Index, is very similar between Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. This preliminary checklist will provide a baseline for future taxonomic and biogeographical studies of marine algae in the region. Further international collaboration among phycologists will improve our knowledge of marine algae in the SCS.		[Phang, Siew-Moi] Univ Malaya, Inst Biol Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia; [Phang, Siew-Moi; Yeong, Hui-Yin] Univ Malaya, Inst Ocean & Earth Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia; [Ganzon-Fortes, Edna T.] Univ Philippines, Inst Marine Sci, Coll Sci, Quezon City, Philippines; [Lewmanomont, Khanjanapaj] Kasetsart Univ, Dept Fisheries Biol, Fac Fisheries, Bangkok 10900, Thailand; [Prathep, Anchana] Prince Songkla Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Hat Yai 90112, Songkhla, Thailand; [Le Nhu Hau] VAST, Nha Trang Inst Technol Res & Applicat, Dept Organ Mat Sea Resource, 2 Hung Vuong St, Nha Trang City, Vietnam; [Gerung, Grevo S.] Sam Ratulangi Univ, Fac Fisheries & Marine Sci, Manado 95115, Indonesia; [Tan, Koh Siang] Natl Univ Singapore, Trop Marine Sci Inst, 18 Kent Ridge Rd, Singapore 119227, Singapore; [Phang, Siew-Moi] Univ Malaya, Inst Biol Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia; [Phang, Siew-Moi] Univ Malaya, Inst Ocean & Earth Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia								54							Zoology	WOS:000393214800003		
J	Miao, Renhui; Song, Yongheng; Sun, Zhaolin; Guo, Meixia; Zhou, Zhenxing; Liu, Yinzhan								Soil Seed Bank and Plant Community Development in Passive Restoration of Degraded Sandy Grasslands								SUSTAINABILITY				8	6					581	10.3390/su8060581			JUN 2016	2016	To evaluate the efficacy of passive restoration on soil seed bank and vegetation recovery, we measured the species composition and density of the soil seed bank, as well as the species composition, density, coverage, and height of the extant vegetation in sites passively restored for 0, 4, 7, and 12 years (S0, S4, S7, and S12) in a degraded grassland in desert land. Compared with S0, three more species in the soil seed bank at depths of 0-30 cm and one more plant species in the community was detected in S12. Seed density within the topsoil (0-5 cm) was five times higher in S12 than that in S0. Plant densities in S7 and S12 were triple and quadruple than that in S0. Plant coverage was increased by 1.5 times (S4), double (S7), and triple (S12) compared with S0. Sorensen's index of similarity in species composition between the soil seed bank and the plant community were high (0.43-0.63), but it was lower in short-term restoration sites (S4 and S7) than that in no and long-term restoration sites (S0 and S12). The soil seed bank recovered more slowly than the plant community under passive restoration. Passive restoration is a useful method to recover the soil seed bank and vegetation in degraded grasslands.		[Miao, Renhui; Song, Yongheng; Sun, Zhaolin; Zhou, Zhenxing; Liu, Yinzhan] Henan Univ, Coll Life Sci, Int Joint Res Lab Global Change Ecol, Kaifeng 475004, Peoples R China; [Guo, Meixia] Chinese Acad Sci, Grad Sch, Beijing 100039, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yinzhan] Henan Univ, Coll Life Sci, Int Joint Res Lab Global Change Ecol, Kaifeng 475004, Peoples R China								24							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000378776800078		
J	Alzate-Guarin, Fernando; Steven Murillo-Serna, Jhon								Angiosperm flora on the paramos of northwestern Colombia: diversity and affinities								PHYTOKEYS					70			41	52		10.3897/phytokeys.70.8609			2016	2016	Paramos are high-elevation isolated ecosystems in the Andes characterized by specific flora. This flora includes a number of endemic species and some taxa phylogenetically related to temperate lineages (van der Hammen and Cleef 1986). There are six paramo units or complexes in the Department of Antioquia, located in northwestern Colombia. For five years, we conducted botanic explorations in order to quantify the richness of angiosperm flora in these units. We estimate the richness of angiosperms in these paramos at 693 species, 277 genera, and 86 families, which represent almost 10% of the floral diversity in Antioquia, but contained in only 0.7% of its area. We found that Frontino-Urrao is the most species-rich paramo with 465 species from 225 genera. Our results show that the most diverse angiosperm families of the paramos of Antioquia are Asteraceae, Orchidaceae, Melastomataceae, and Poaceae, which together represent 245 species. Groupings between paramos by Sorensen's similarity index show that the complexes of the Central Andes Cordillera form a cluster of greater affinity than Paramos from other regions. Of the species found, 80 have a CITES or IUCN diagnosis. The expeditions allowed the identification of 21 species not previously registered in Antioquia and a considerable number of endemisms (35 species), further proof of the high plant diversity in these ecosystems.		[Alzate-Guarin, Fernando; Steven Murillo-Serna, Jhon] Univ Antioquia, Inst Biol, Herbario HUA, Calle 67 53-108, Medellin, Colombia; [Alzate-Guarin, Fernando] Univ Antioquia, Inst Biol, Herbario HUA, Calle 67 53-108, Medellin, Colombia								5							Plant Sciences	WOS:000386427500005		
J	Arieira, Giovani de Oliveira; Santiago, Debora Cristina; Franchini, Julio Cezar; Guimaraes, Maria de Fatima								Depth-stratified soil sampling for assessing nematode communities								SEMINA-CIENCIAS AGRARIAS				37	2			715	727		10.5433/1679-0359.2016v37n2p715			2016	2016	This study assessed the importance of stratified soil sampling on the detection (and therefore the distribution) of nematode communities and the differentiation of ecosystems by collecting stratified soil samples at intervals of 10 cm and non-stratified samples from 0 to 30 cm in two soil management systems (no-tillage and conventional tillage) and in a native forest fragment. The nematode frequency and prominence values were obtained after extraction by successive screening operations, sugar floatation clarification and the identification of nematodes to the genus level. The nematode communities were compared two-by-two based on Sorensen's community coefficient (CC) and the percentage similarity (PS). Relative abundances of functional guilds were subjected to a principal component analysis (PCA) and classified in dendrograms. Thirty-two edaphic nematode genera were found, and the nematode communities sampled on a non-stratified basis in the soil profile exhibited a high level of similarity because they could not be accurately characterized. Genera with low abundances were not detected. In the stratified samples, we were able to classify and group the nematodes present at different depths, mainly from 0 to 10 cm. Stratified soil sampling allowed a more accurate characterization and greater differentiation of nematode communities, identifying taxa that occurred at lower abundance levels, irrespective of frequency.		[Arieira, Giovani de Oliveira] Univ Estadual Londrina, Curso Doutorado Programa Posgrad Agron, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Santiago, Debora Cristina; Guimaraes, Maria de Fatima] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Agron, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Franchini, Julio Cezar] EMBRAPA Soja, Empresa Brasileira Pesquisa Agr, Londrina, PR, Brazil; [Santiago, Debora Cristina] Univ Estadual Londrina, Dept Agron, Londrina, PR, Brazil								4							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000378900100014		
J	Adamek, Zdenek; Konecna, Jana; Podhrazska, Jana; Vsetickova, Lucie; Jurajdova, Zdenka								Response of Small-Stream Biota to Sudden Flow Pulses Following Extreme Precipitation Events								POLISH JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES				25	2			495	501		10.15244/pjoes/60243			2016	2016	Extreme discharge rate increases in small streams caused by sudden extreme precipitation events are classified as small-scale pulse-type disturbances. Small highland brooks in agricultural landscapes (arable land and meadows) are frequently characterised by extremely low flows during normal conditions, plus the rare appearance of high-flow events that periodically may reset their ecosystems. We studied two small highland brooks to assess the impact of extreme discharge rates (flow pulses) upon periphyton, macrozoobenthos, and fish assemblages. No distinct changes were recorded in composition of periphyton assemblage or fish (brown trout, Salmo trutta m. fario) occurrence following such flow pulses. Cyanobacteria, however, were absent following a flow pulse, while growth appeared to be boosted in green algae (Chlorophyceae). Similarly, there was no negative response observed in macrozoobenthos communities, with density, diversity, taxa richness, and saprobic indices remaining either more-or-less unchanged or considerably enhanced following high-discharge episodes. These observations were confirmed through Sorensen's similarity indices, which indicated no significant change in either periphyton or macrozoobenthos following such episodes.		[Adamek, Zdenek] Univ South Bohemia Ceske Budejovice, Fac Fisheries & Protect Waters, South Bohemian Res Ctr Aquaculture & Biodivers Hy, Inst Aquaculture, Husova Tr 458-12, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic; [Konecna, Jana; Podhrazska, Jana] Res Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Lidicka 25-27, Brno 60200, Czech Republic; [Vsetickova, Lucie; Jurajdova, Zdenka] Inst Vertebrate Biol AS CR, Kvetna 8, Brno 60365, Czech Republic; [Konecna, Jana] Res Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Lidicka 25-27, Brno 60200, Czech Republic								10							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000373368300004		
J	Mallick, Priyanka Halder; Chakraborty, Susanta Kumar								Does Intra-Site Connectivity Influence the Dynamics of Zooplankton Metacommunity in Freshwater Habitats?								TURKISH JOURNAL OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC SCIENCES				15	3						10.4194/1303-2712-v15_3_11			NOV 2015	2015	The paper reported on a metacommunity analysis of zooplankton in two freshwater wetlands having contrasting ecological features for three seasons over a year. The effects of spatial connectedness, habitat fragmentation, environmental changes mediated by seasonal fluctuations and variability in assemblages of aquatic vegetation on the zooplankton community were compared. A total of 116 zooplankton species were recorded from both the study sites. Few zooplankton showed affinity for Site 1, whereas others were unique to Site 2. Sorensen. s similarity index revealed that the two sites were moderately similar with respect to zooplankton composition, but were moderately dissimilar with regard to floral composition. The present study has tested Community Wide Character Displacement (CWCD) hypothesis based on the results which exhibited less similarities in the fragmented local habitats within the same wetland than two major distantly located wetlands in respect of zooplankton species composition. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and Cluster analysis have revealed that direct connectivity might have played most vital role in shaping community structure especially in case of planktonic organisms, followed by the influence of seasons and macrophytes.		[Mallick, Priyanka Halder; Chakraborty, Susanta Kumar] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Zool, Midnapore 721102, W Bengal, India; [Mallick, Priyanka Halder] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Zool, Midnapore 721102, W Bengal, India								3							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000368271800011		
J	Lautert, Mayara; Temponi, Livia Godinho; Viveros, Raquel S.; Salino, Alexandre								Lycophytes and ferns composition of Atlantic Forest conservation units in western Parana with comparisons to other areas in southern Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				29	4			499	508		10.1590/0102-33062015abb0057			OCT-DEC 2015	2015	This study surveyed lycophyte and fern species in four forest fragments in western Parana, Brazil, and compared them to 15 other fragments with different plant formations from the Atlantic Forest biome in southern Brazil. In total, five lycophyte species (in two families and two genera) and 98 species and two varieties of ferns (in 16 families and 38 genera) were registered in the four fragments. The most represented families were Pteridaceae (23 spp.), Polypodiaceae (18 spp.), Aspleniaceae (13 spp.), and Thelypteridaceae (11 spp.). Asplenium (12 spp.), Thelypteris (10 spp.), and Blechnum (seven spp.) were among the most represented genera. The occurrence of Dicksonia sellowiana was noteworthy because it was associated with seasonal semideciduous forest and is threatened in Brazil. Similarity among areas was determined by a cluster analysis (UPGMA and Sorensen's index) and the relation between similarity and geographic distance was determined through Matel's analysis. The analyses revealed greater similarity among the four study areas and, for these areas as a whole, greater similarity to fragments in Rio Grande do Sul, which is evidence that these areas have similar environmental conditions.		[Lautert, Mayara; Temponi, Livia Godinho] Univ Estadual Oeste Parana, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, BR-85819110 Cascavel, PR, Brazil; [Viveros, Raquel S.; Salino, Alexandre] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, Inst Ciencias Biol, Dept Bot, BR-31270901 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Lautert, Mayara] Univ Estadual Oeste Parana, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Ave Univ 2069, BR-85819110 Cascavel, PR, Brazil								6							Plant Sciences	WOS:000367359100006		
J	Vondrak, Jan; Malicek, Jiri; Soun, Jaroslav; Pouska, Vaclav								Epiphytic lichens of Stuzica (E Slovakia) in the context of Central European old-growth forests								HERZOGIA				28	1			104	126		10.13158/heia.28.1.2015.104			JUN 2015	2015	Based on recent lichen inventories, we report 230 epiphytic and epixylic species in the Slovakian old-growth beech-dominated Stuzica forest. Microlichens represent 75% of species. By comparison, lichen lists of only three other Central European forests exceed 200 species, and none of them reached 230. Lichen diversity is very unequally distributed in Stdica; the extensive south-facing slopes are poor in species, whereas damp brook valleys and upper parts of slopes above 1000m alt. are rich. Some rare macrolichens were collected in Stuzica about 50 years ago but could not be relocated during the present survey. Twelve species are new to Slovakia: Epigloea urosperma, Graphis macrocarpa, Kirschsteiniothelia recess a, Lecidea sanguineoatra, Lepraria ecorticata, Micarea nigella, Opegrapha trochodes, Parmotrema arnoldii, Pertusaria waghornei, Ramonia chrysophaea, Sclerophora amabilis and Tetramelas chloroleucus. Three recorded species were considered regionally extinct in Slovakia: Arthonia byssacea, Sclerophora coniophaea and Sclerophora farinacea.		[Vondrak, Jan] Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, CS-25243 Pruhonice, Czech Republic; [Vondrak, Jan] Univ South Bohemia, Dept Bot, Fac Sci, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic; [Vondrak, Jan] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Environm Sci, Prague 16521 6, Suchdol, Czech Republic; [Malicek, Jiri] Charles Univ Prague, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Prague 12801 2, Czech Republic; [Soun, Jaroslav] West Bohemian Museum Pilsen, Plzen 30100, Czech Republic; [Pouska, Vaclav] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Forestry & Wood Sci, Prague 16521 6, Suchdol, Czech Republic; [Vondrak, Jan] Acad Sci Czech Republic, Inst Bot, Zamek 1, CS-25243 Pruhonice, Czech Republic								22							Plant Sciences	WOS:000359326200010		
J	Bezerra, Jadson D. P.; Nascimento, Carlos C. F.; Barbosa, Renan do N.; da Silva, Dianny C. V.; Svedese, Virginia M.; Silva-Nogueira, Eliane B.; Gomes, Bruno S.; Paiva, Laura M.; Souza-Motta, Cristina M.								Endophytic fungi from medicinal plant <i>Bauhinia forficata</i>: Diversity and biotechnological potential								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY				46	1			49	57		10.1590/S1517-838246120130657			MAY 2015	2015	Bauhinia forficata is native to South America and used with relative success in the folk medicine in Brazil. The diversity, antibacterial activity, and extracellular hydrolytic enzymes of endophytic fungi associated with this plant were studied. Plant samples, which included leaves, sepals, stems, and seeds, were used. Ninety-five endophytic fungal were isolated (18 from leaves, 22 from sepals, 46 from stems, and nine from seeds), comprising 28 species. The most frequently isolated species were Acremonium curvulum (9.5%), Aspergillus ochraceus (7.37%), Gibberella fujikuroi (10.53%), Myrothecium verrucaria (10.53%) and Trichoderma piluliferum (7.37%). Diversity and species richness were higher in stem tissues, and Sorensen's index of similarity between the tissues was low. Eleven fungi showed antibacterial activity. Aspergillus ochraceus, Gibberella baccata, Penicillium commune, and P. glabrum were those with the greatest antibacterial activity against Staphylococcus aureus and/or Streptococcus pyogenes. Thirteen species showed proteolytic activity, particularly Phoma putaminum. Fourteen species were cellulase positive, particularly the Penicillium species and Myrmecridium schulzeri. All isolates tested were xylanase positive and 10 showed lipolytic activity, especially Penicillium glabrum. It is clear that the endophytic fungi from B. forficata have potential for the production of bioactive compounds and may be a source of new therapeutic agents for the effective treatment of diseases in humans, other animals, and plants. To our knowledge, this is the first study of endophytic fungi from different tissues of B. forficata and their biotechnological potential.		[Bezerra, Jadson D. P.; Nascimento, Carlos C. F.; Barbosa, Renan do N.; da Silva, Dianny C. V.; Svedese, Virginia M.; Silva-Nogueira, Eliane B.; Gomes, Bruno S.; Paiva, Laura M.; Souza-Motta, Cristina M.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Micol, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Souza-Motta, Cristina M.] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Micol, Micoteca URM, Ave Prof Nelson Chaves S-No, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil								62							Microbiology	WOS:000355769900006		
J	Ostojic, Aleksandar M.; Radojevic, Ivana D.; Balkic, Anita Galir								Zooplankton Community Along the Sava River								Handbook of Environmental Chemistry Series				31				317	334		10.1007/978-3-662-44034-6_12			2015	2015	The aim of this study was to examine for the first time the composition of zooplankton community along the greatest part of the Sava River flow. Eighty two zooplankton taxa were collected at the Sava River in September of 2012, 7 Rhizopoda, 8 Ciliophora, 57 Rotifera, 7 Cladocera, 2 Copepoda, and 1 Bivalvia. The number of zooplankton species found at sampling sites varied between 2 and 30. The most diverse group was Rotifera, which comprised 69 % of the total number of recorded taxa. The abundance of zooplankton was low and the abundance of individual zooplankton communities varied between 1 and 36 ind/L, and these results are in accordance with the results of previous works. The similarity indices (Sorensen's and Jaccard's) between the localities studied were rather low, despite relatively close distances between them. The probable reason was that the sites were localized at the sections of the river characterized by different environmental factors.		[Ostojic, Aleksandar M.; Radojevic, Ivana D.] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Sci, Dept Biol & Ecol, Kragujevac, Serbia; [Balkic, Anita Galir] JJ Strossmayer Univ Osijek, Dept Biol, Osijek, Croatia; [Ostojic, Aleksandar M.] Univ Kragujevac, Fac Sci, Dept Biol & Ecol, Kragujevac, Serbia								0							Chemistry, Applied; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000364124300014		
J	de Paula, Alessandro; Martins, Fernanda Quintas; Portugal Luttembarck Batalha, Marco Antonio; Rodrigues, Rodrigo; Manhaes, Marco Antonio								RICHNESS, DIVERSITY, AND FLORISTIC COMPOSITION IN REGENERATING AND PRESERVED 'CERRADO' AREAS IN ITIRAPINA ECOLOGICAL STATION, SAO PAULO STATE								CIENCIA FLORESTAL				25	1			231	238					JAN-MAR 2015	2015	The capacity of 'cerrado' species to regrow from underground organs after deforestation depends on the soil physical and chemical properties and the time elapsed since the disturbance. In Itirapina Ecological Station, we carried out floristic and phytosociological surveys of both herbaceous and woody components of the vegetation in 'cerrado' in a regenerating plot, after two years of Pinus elliotti removal, and in a neighboring preserved the 'cerrado' area. In each of the two areas have been launched along a transection, 20 parts of 5 m x 5 m, systematically distributed to each 20 m. These plots were sampled the woody component (all woody plants with stem diameter at ground level equal to or greater than 3 cm). In each of the plots was defined a sub-portion of 0.5 m x 0.5 m, which was sampled at the herbaceous component (all woody plants with a stem diameter at the ground level lower than 3 cm and all non-woody). The lowest diversity index was found for the herbaceous component of the regeneration area (1.29 nats. individual(-1)), while the highest was for the herbaceous component of the preserved area of 'cerrado' (2.75 nats. individual(-1)). Among the areas being regenerated and preserved, Sorensen's similarity indices for both the herbaceous component (0.23) and for the woody component (0.31), showed low floristic similarity between areas. Besides, the density and richness for both components were significantly higher for the area preserved in 'cerrado'. The results showed that the two years elapsed since Pinus elliotti clear-cut were not enough for the natural vegetation recovery.		[de Paula, Alessandro] Univ Estadual Sudoeste Bahia, Dept Engn Agr & Solos, BR-45083900 Vitoria Da Conquista, BA, Brazil; [Martins, Fernanda Quintas] Ctr Univ Leonardo da Vinci, BR-89130000 Indaial, SC, Brazil; [Portugal Luttembarck Batalha, Marco Antonio] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Bot, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Rodrigo] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Programa Posgrad Ecol Recursos Nat, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Manhaes, Marco Antonio] Univ Fed Juiz Fora, Inst Ciencias Biol, BR-36036900 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [de Paula, Alessandro] Univ Estadual Sudoeste Bahia, Dept Engn Agr & Solos, Estrada Bem Querer,Km 4,Caixa Postal 95, BR-45083900 Vitoria Da Conquista, BA, Brazil								1							Plant Sciences; Forestry	WOS:000352100000022		
J	Jahanifard, Elham; Yaghoobi-Ershadi, Mohammad Reza; Akhavan, Amir Ahmad; Akbarzadeh, Kamran; Hanafi-Bojd, Ahmad Ali; Rassi, Yavar; Sedaghat, Mohammad Mehdi; Shirzadi, Mohammad Reza; Karimi, Ameneh								Diversity of sand flies (Diptera, Psychodidae) in southwest Iran with emphasis on synanthropy of <i>Phlebotomus papatasi and Phlebotomus alexandri</i>								ACTA TROPICA				140				173	180		10.1016/j.actatropica.2014.08.017			DEC 2014	2014	Zoonotic Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (ZCL) is still a serious health problem in Iran. The objective of the study was to determine the differences in sand fly biodiversity in Shush (plain) and Khorramshahr (littoral) Counties, Khuzestan Province, southwest Iran. Sand flies were collected using sticky paper traps from urban, semi urban, agricultural and natural ecotypes. Alpha and beta diversity were calculated using Shannon-Weiner index and Jaccard's and Sorensen's coefficients, respectively. Synanthropic index was determined for the first time for Phlebotomus papatasi and Phlebotomus alexandri in different land use categories in Iran. Totally 11213 specimens, 68.47% in Shush and 31.53% in Khorramshahr, were collected. Eleven species of sand flies including, 2 of genus Phlebotomus and 9 of genus Sergentomyia were identified. Sergentomyia christophersi was found as a new record. Dominant species were P. papatasi and Sergentomyia sintoni. Shannon-Weiner index, richness and evenness in semi urban area of Shush County were more than other habitats. The analysis of alpha biodiversity showed that agricultural ecosystem of Khorramshahr County had the highest diversity due to maximal richness and diversity and also relatively high evenness. Comparison of similarity of the sand flies population composition between Shush and Khorramshahr indicated the maximum similarity between the urban area of Shush and the semi urban area of Khorramshahr (S-j = 75% and S-s = 86%). Synanthropic index of P. papatasi and P. alexandri were calculated to be -83.34 and -91.18, respectively in Shush County. Estimated synanthropic indices for P. papatasi and P. alexandri in three habitats (natural, semi urban and urban) of Khorramshahr County were -69.84 and -85.89, in the same order. The factors for having high diversity of sand flies in the plain area studied may be due to higher annual precipitation, the related land use and land cover. The changes on the composition of sand flies are perhaps due to human intervention in their natural habitats. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Jahanifard, Elham; Yaghoobi-Ershadi, Mohammad Reza; Akhavan, Amir Ahmad; Akbarzadeh, Kamran; Hanafi-Bojd, Ahmad Ali; Rassi, Yavar; Sedaghat, Mohammad Mehdi; Shirzadi, Mohammad Reza; Karimi, Ameneh] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Tehran 14155, Iran; [Yaghoobi-Ershadi, Mohammad Reza] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, POB 6446, Tehran 14155, Iran								22							Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000345473800023		
J	Williams, Vivienne L.; Cunningham, Anthony B.; Kemp, Alan C.; Bruyns, Robin K.								Risks to Birds Traded for African Traditional Medicine: A Quantitative Assessment								PLOS ONE				9	8					e105397	10.1371/journal.pone.0105397			AUG 27 2014	2014	Few regional or continent-wide assessments of bird use for traditional medicine have been attempted anywhere in the world. Africa has the highest known diversity of bird species used for this purpose. This study assesses the vulnerability of 354 bird species used for traditional medicine in 25 African countries, from 205 genera, 70 families, and 25 orders. The orders most represented were Passeriformes (107 species), Falconiformes (45 species), and Coraciiformes (24 species), and the families Accipitridae (37 species), Ardeidae (15 species), and Bucerotidae (12 species). The Barn owl (Tyto alba) was the most widely sold species (seven countries). The similarity of avifaunal orders traded is high (analogous to "morphospecies'', and using Sorensen's index), which suggests opportunities for a common understanding of cultural factors driving demand. The highest similarity was between bird orders sold in markets of Benin vs. Burkina Faso (90%), but even bird orders sold in two geographically separated countries (Benin vs. South Africa and Nigeria vs. South Africa) were 87% and 81% similar, respectively. Rabinowitz's "7 forms of rarity'' model, used to group species according to commonness or rarity, indicated that 24% of traded bird species are very common, locally abundant in several habitats, and occur over a large geographical area, but 10% are rare, occur in low numbers in specific habitats, and over a small geographical area. The order with the highest proportion of rare species was the Musophagiformes. An analysis of species mass (as a proxy for size) indicated that large and/or conspicuous species tend to be targeted by harvesters for the traditional medicine trade. Furthermore, based on cluster analyses for species groups of similar risk, vultures, hornbills, and other large avifauna, such as bustards, are most threatened by selective harvesting and should be prioritised for conservation action.		[Williams, Vivienne L.; Bruyns, Robin K.] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Cunningham, Anthony B.] Univ Stellenbosch, Sch Publ Leadership, ZA-7600 Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Kemp, Alan C.] Ditsong Museum Nat Hist, Pretoria, South Africa; [Williams, Vivienne L.] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa								37							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000340880900034		
J	Borisova, Petya; Varadinova, Emilia; Kerakova, Maria; Kazakov, Stefan; Stoichev, Stefan; Uzunov, Yordan; Pehlivanov, Luchezar								Seasonal Changes in Benthic Communities of the Srebarna Lake (Northeast Bulgaria): Habitat Perspective								ACTA ZOOLOGICA BULGARICA				66	2			239	245					JUN 2014	2014	The present study was conducted to establish the seasonal changes of the macrozoobenthic communities in different habitats, within the Srebarna Lake, during the period 2009-2011. The lowest value of the total abundance was recorded during the spring of 2011 in the central open water body, where unfavorable environmental conditions were recorded. In the peripheral zones the more diversified habitat structure and availability of refuges against fish predation were prerequisites for higher species richness and diversity of the macrozoobenthos communities, as well as for higher total abundance. In the peripheral pools the highest values of both the total abundance and species richness were found in spring. Sorensen's similarity coefficient has shown clear differences between the taxonomic composition of macrozoobenthos in the main distinguished types of habitats - central open water body, peripheral pools within the lake area and a peripheral pool close to the lake. The maximum species similarity was found between spring and summer samples from the central part of the lake. Both indices, percentage of Oligochaeta and PETI, determined clear seasonal changes in ecological state assessment.		[Borisova, Petya; Varadinova, Emilia; Kerakova, Maria; Kazakov, Stefan; Stoichev, Stefan; Uzunov, Yordan; Pehlivanov, Luchezar] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Res, Dept Aquat Ecosyst, BU-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria; [Borisova, Petya] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Res, Dept Aquat Ecosyst, 2 Gagarin St, BU-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria								3							Zoology	WOS:000338601300013		
J	Sprocati, Anna Rosa; Alisi, Chiara; Tasso, Flavia; Fiore, Alessia; Marconi, Paola; Langella, Francesca; Haferburg, Goetz; Nicoara, Andrei; Neagoe, Aurora; Kothe, Erika								Bioprospecting at former mining sites across Europe: microbial and functional diversity in soils								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				21	11			6824	6835		10.1007/s11356-013-1907-3			JUN 2014	2014	The planetary importance of microbial function requires urgently that our knowledge and our exploitation ability is extended, therefore every occasion of bioprospecting is welcome. In this work, bioprospecting is presented from the perspective of the UMBRELLA project, whose main goal was to develop an integral approach for remediation of soil influenced by mining activity, by using microorganisms in association with plants. Accordingly, this work relies on the cultivable fraction of microbial biodiversity, native to six mining sites across Europe, different for geographical, climatic and geochemical characteristics but similar for suffering from chronic stress. The comparative analysis of the soil functional diversity, resulting from the metabolic profiling at community level (BIOLOG ECOPlates) and confirmed by the multivariate analysis, separates the six soils in two clusters, identifying soils characterised by low functional diversity and low metabolic activity. The microbial biodiversity falls into four major bacterial phyla: Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, including a total of 47 genera and 99 species. In each soil, despite harsh conditions, metabolic capacity of nitrogen fixation and plant growth promotion were quite widespread, and most of the strains showed multiple resistances to heavy metals. At species-level, Shannon's index (alpha diversity) and Sorensen's Similarity (beta diversity) indicates the sites are indeed diverse. Multivariate analysis of soil chemical factors and biodiversity identifies for each soil well-discriminating chemical factors and species, supporting the assumption that cultured biodiversity from the six mining sites presents, at phylum level, a convergence correlated to soil factors rather than to geographical factors while, at species level, reflects a remarkable local characterisation.		[Sprocati, Anna Rosa; Alisi, Chiara; Tasso, Flavia; Fiore, Alessia; Marconi, Paola] Italian Natl Agcy New Technol, I-00123 Rome, Italy; [Langella, Francesca; Haferburg, Goetz; Kothe, Erika] Univ Jena, D-07743 Jena, Germany; [Nicoara, Andrei; Neagoe, Aurora] Univ Bucharest, Fac Biol, Ctr Ecol Serv, Bucharest 050107, Romania; [Alisi, Chiara] Italian Natl Agcy New Technol, Via Anguillarese 301, I-00123 Rome, Italy								22							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000336371000007		
J	Saiful, I.; Latiff, A.								EFFECTS OF SELECTIVE LOGGING ON TREE SPECIES COMPOSITION, RICHNESS AND DIVERSITY IN A HILL DIPTEROCARP FOREST IN MALAYSIA								JOURNAL OF TROPICAL FOREST SCIENCE				26	2			188	202					APR 2014	2014	A systematic sampling along a gradient-directed transect was conducted in a primary hill dipterocarp rainforest in Peninsular Malaysia to study the effects of selective logging on tree species composition, richness and diversity. The area was surveyed for more than one year before it was logged. Six months to one year after logging, resurveying of the same plots was done. The extraction of 27 trees per hectare affected all diameter classes. Of the 47.0% of total injury, 40.1% of stems were totally destroyed and dead. Species richness and diversity showed significant variation from the original levels. A percentage of 24.1% of the total tree species were recorded lost from the study site in the first cut that encompassed only rare tree species and commercial timber trees. About 50% of the residual species were under very rare category with single stem. Logging also altered the species composition and species accumulation curve of all tree size classes. To arrest the loss of biodiversity, this study strongly suggests integration of biodiversity survey with the existing management system. as well as careful planning and execution of improved logging practices.		[Saiful, I.] Forest Dept Headquarters, Dhaka, Bangladesh; [Latiff, A.] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Bangi 43600, Selangor Darul, Malaysia; [Saiful, I.] Forest Dept Headquarters, Dhaka, Bangladesh								22							Forestry	WOS:000335623300005		
J	Uwimbabazi, Moreen; Eilu, Gerald								Avian frugivore assemblages on <i>Celtis gomphophylla</i>, Baker, in Budongo Forest Reserve, Uganda								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				52	1			97	102		10.1111/aje.12088			MAR 2014	2014	The relationship between selective logging and avian frugivores feeding on Celtis gomphophylla was examined in Budongo Forest Reserve, from June to July 2005, using scan sampling. Abundance and species richness of avian frugivores were compared between two compartments (N3 and W22 last logged in 1952 and 1997 respectively). Two 1-ha plots were established in each compartment from which two C.gomphophylla trees selected for observation. A total of 203 avian frugivores comprising 17 species, visited the eight C.gomphophylla trees. Avian frugivore abundance and richness were significantly higher in N3 than W22 ((2)=5.83, (2)=0.03, P<0.05). Fischer's alpha diversity index also indicated a higher avian frugivore (frugivory?) in N3 than that in W22. The Sorensen's similarity index showed that species composition between the two compartments was moderately similar. The diversity of forest specialists and generalists was not significantly different in the two compartments (F=0.3451, P=0.082 and F=0.368, P=0.553). Our results stress the significance of logging intensity on avian feeding guilds and confirm that forests which have had enough recovery time are better habitats for avian frugivore assemblages.		[Uwimbabazi, Moreen; Eilu, Gerald] Makerere Univ, Fac Forestry & Nat Conservat, Kampala, Uganda; [Uwimbabazi, Moreen] Makerere Univ, Fac Forestry & Nat Conservat, POB 7062, Kampala, Uganda								1							Ecology	WOS:000331192100011		
J	Godsoe, William								Inferring the similarity of species distributions using Species' Distribution Models								ECOGRAPHY				37	2			130	136		10.1111/j.1600-0587.2013.00403.x			FEB 2014	2014	A common problem in ecology is our need to reliably compare information on the distributions of distinct species. Since it is not always possible to directly compare the distributions of two species, numerous papers now seek to compare the predictions of Species' Distribution Models (SDMs, estimates of the probability that two species are present, given environmental data). At present, it is not clear when these analyses of SDMs actually reproduce comparisons of species' distributions. I use analytic results and simulations to show that even if the SDMs for two species are identical; their distributions may still differ dramatically. I use this problem to motivate a new index to compare SDMs - an estimate of the SOrensen's similarity of the distributions of two species. I then provide a script to compute this estimator in R. Using simulations I show that this estimator provides a much stronger inference of the similarity of species distributions than previously proposed methods. This work clarifies the interpretation of comparisons of SDMs.		Univ Canterbury, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand; [Godsoe, William] Univ Canterbury, Private Bag 4800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand								12							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000329927800005		
J	Yang, Dong; Li, Wei								Soil seed bank and aboveground vegetation along a successional gradient on the shores of an oxbow								AQUATIC BOTANY				110				67	77		10.1016/j.aquabot.2013.05.004			OCT 2013	2013	The soil seed bank and aboveground vegetation were investigated on the shores of the Tian-e-zhou oxbow in China along a successional gradient (i.e. mud flat, sedge and graminoid marsh, sedge and reed meadow, and willow shrub). We expected to explore the following questions: (1) Does seed density and species richness of the soil seed banks decline during succession? (2) Does the similarity between the soil seed bank and aboveground vegetation decrease during succession? (3) Can soil seed banks be considered as a potential source of material for wetland restoration? Results fevealed that 19 species (about 61% of the species in the mud flat stage) were found in all successional stages. Both seed density and species richness increased with succession. Species of the soil seed bank showed greater compositional similarity (Sorensen's index) across four stages than did the aboveground vegetation. The similarity between soil seed bank and aboveground vegetation increased as succession proceeds. In conclusion, the seed bank of Tian-e-zhou oxbow wetland contains a relatively abundant seed density and species richness. The soil seed bank could thus play an important role in the restoration management of oxbow wetlands. However, the high dominance of mudflat annuals and the absence of most dominant perennials in the soil seed bank suggest that target species may require active introduction for further restoration (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Yang, Dong; Li, Wei] Chinese Acad Sci, Wuhan Bot Garden, Key Lab Aquat Bot & Watershed Ecol, Wuhan 430074, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Yang, Dong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Li, Wei] Chinese Acad Sci, Wuhan Bot Garden, Key Lab Aquat Bot & Watershed Ecol, Wuhan 430074, Hubei, Peoples R China								14							Plant Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000325122500010		
J	Norafida, Nik N. A.; Nizam, M. S.; Puliana, Wan W. A.								Community Structure, Diversity and Total Biomass of Tree Species at <i>Kapur</i> Dominated Forests in Peninsular Malaysia								AIP Conference Proceedings				1571				302	307		10.1063/1.4858673			2013	2013	A study was conducted to determine the species composition, diversity and biomass of Kapur (Dryobalanops aromatica Gaertn.f.) dominated forests in Peninsular Malaysia. Three forests were selected in different geographical zones, namely Bukit Bauk Virgin Jungle Reserve (BBVJR), Terengganu, Lesong Forest Reserve (LFR), Pahang and Gunung Belumut Recreational Forest (GBRF), Johor. Thirty plots of 0.1 ha (50 m x 20 m) were established with a total sampling area of 1.0 ha at each forest site. All trees with >= 5 cm diameter at breast height (dbh) were tagged, measured and voucher specimens were collected. Floristic composition in the study plot at BBVJR recorded 55 families, 147 genera and 336 species. In LFR, there were 52 families, 138 genera and 288 species, whereas in GBRF there were 52 families, 132 genera and 271 species. D. aromatica was the most important species in all study plots with the Importance Value Index (IVi) of 17.81%, 23.01% and 16.25% in BBVJR, LFR and GBRF, respectively. Similar trend at family level showed the Dipterocarpaceae was the most important family in each of the areas with the family Importance Value Index (FIVi) of 27.95% (BBVJR), 26.09% (LFR) and 27.16% (GBRF). Shannon diversity index (H') and Shannon evenness index (J') of trees at BBVJR was 5.02 and 0.86; LFR was 4.63 and 0.82; and GBRF was 4.82 and 0.86, respectively. Sorensen's community similarity coefficient (CCs) showed that tree communities between BBVJR, LFR and GBRF had low similarities with values of 0.3 to 0.4. The highest total biomass estimated was in LFR with a value of 739.44 t/ha, followed by BBVJR at 701.34 t/ha and GBRF at 606.29 t/ha.		[Norafida, Nik N. A.; Nizam, M. S.; Puliana, Wan W. A.] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Sch Environm & Nat Resource Sci, Fac Sci & Technol, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Norafida, Nik N. A.] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Sch Environm & Nat Resource Sci, Fac Sci & Technol, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia				Universiti-Kebangsaan-Malaysia, Faculty-of-Science-and-Technology Postgraduate Colloquium	JUL 03-04, 2013		Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Bangi, MALAYSIA	1							Physics, Applied; Physics, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000331836300053		
J	Kulfan, M.; Holecova, M.; Beracko, P.								Dalechampii oak (<i>Quercus dalechampii</i> Ten.), an important host plant for folivorous lepidoptera larvae								ANIMAL BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				36	1			13	31					2013	2013	We conducted a structured analysis of lepidoptera larvae taxocenoses living in leaf bearing crowns of Dalechampii oak (Quercus dalechampii Ten.) in nine study plots in the Male Karpaty Mountains (Central Europe). The differences between lepidoptera taxocenoses in individual oak stands were analyzed. A total of 96 species and 2,140 individuals were found. Species abundance peaked in May, while number of species and species diversity reached the highest values from April to May and from April to June, respectively. Abundance showed two notable peaks in flush feeders and in late summer feeders. Lepidoptera taxocenosis in the study plot Horny haj (isolated forest, high density of ants) differed significantly from all other taxocenoses according to Sorensen's index of species similarity, species diversity, analysis of similarity on the basis of permutation and pairwise tests (ANOSIM), seasonal variability of species composition, and NMDS ordination.		[Kulfan, M.; Beracko, P.] Comenius Univ, Dept Ecol, Fac Nat Sci, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia; [Holecova, M.] Comenius Univ, Dept Zool, Fac Nat Sci, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia; [Kulfan, M.] Comenius Univ, Dept Ecol, Fac Nat Sci, Mlynska Dolina B-1, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia								2							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000325910300003		
J	Shah, Javaid Ahmad; Pandit, Ashok Kumar								SEASONAL SUCCESSION OF CRUSTACEAN ZOOPLANKTON IN WULAR LAKE OF THE KASHMIR HIMALAYA (Retracted Article)								ARCHIVES OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				65	3			1063	1068		10.2298/ABS1303063B			2013	2013	The present study was undertaken on Wular Lake, a Ramsar Site in Kashmir Himalaya, to study the seasonal succession of crustacean zooplankton from September 2010 to August 2011. A total of 42 crustacean taxa belonging to Cladocera (23), Copepoda (16) and Ostracoda (3) were identified at five different sampling sites. Among the crustaceans, Cladocera was numerically the most dominant group at sites III, IV and V, followed by Copepoda at sites I and II. On an average basis total crustacean density ranged from 416 ind./l in winter to 1567.6 ind./l in summer. On the basis of Sorensen's similarity index, study sites IV and V showed close similarity (88.13%).		[Shah, Javaid Ahmad; Pandit, Ashok Kumar] Univ Kashmir, Res Dev Ctr, Aquat Ecol Lab, Srinagar 190006, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Shah, Javaid Ahmad] Univ Kashmir, Res Dev Ctr, Aquat Ecol Lab, Srinagar 190006, Jammu & Kashmir, India								3							Biology	WOS:000322348800030		
J	Pekas, K. M.; Schupp, E. W.								Influence of aboveground vegetation on seed bank composition and distribution in a Great Basin Desert sagebrush community								JOURNAL OF ARID ENVIRONMENTS				88				113	120		10.1016/j.jaridenv.2012.08.013			JAN 2013	2013	The quantity, composition, and spatial dispersion of seed banks can greatly affect community dynamics. While seed banks of hot deserts have been studied extensively, little is known about seed banks in cold deserts, in particular the relationship between the seed bank and the aboveground vegetation. We investigated the relationship between the seed bank and aboveground vegetation and the effect of microhabitat (shrub interspace or beneath shrub) and aboveground community phase (high or low perennial bunchgrass cover) on the seed bank of a Great Basin Desert sagebrush community. The seed bank and aboveground vegetation differed in their most dominant species, resulting in moderately dissimilar species compositions as determined by Sorensen's similarity index and Bray-Curtis distance. In contrast, comparing the seed bank species composition to the aboveground vegetation structure (functional groups) using non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) revealed a correspondence between the two communities. Shrub seed densities were higher beneath shrubs. Neither microhabitat nor community phase explained variation in total seed density or species richness. Therefore, our measures of the aboveground vegetation did not influence seed density across functional groups or species richness, and the similarity between the seed bank and aboveground vegetation varied depending on the aboveground organizational level used in comparisons. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Utah State Univ, Dept Wildland Resources, Logan, UT 84322 USA; Utah State Univ, Ctr Ecol, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Pekas, K. M.] Idaho Dept Fish & Game, Idaho Nat Heritage Program, 3316 16th St, Lewiston, ID 83501 USA								29							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000313392900015		
J	Sudheep, Naga Mangala; Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah								Aquatic hyphomycetes in hyporheic freshwater habitats of southwest India								LIMNOLOGICA				42	2			87	94		10.1016/j.limno.2012.02.001			MAY 2012	2012	The hyporheic zones constitute a major site of storage of organic matter and energy flow in freshwater ecosystems. To complement the studies carried out in North America and Europe, we evaluated the sediment quality and occurrence of aquatic hyphomycetes in coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM; >= 5 mm) and fine particulate matter (FPM; <= 1 mm) in three locations of Kaiga stream and eight locations of Kadra dam of the River Kali in Western Ghats. The pH of sediments of stream and dam was acidic (5.8-6.6) and the average organic carbon of stream sediments was higher than dam sediments (8.6% vs. 3.9%). Among the eight minerals monitored, Fe was highest in all sediments and Ni was below detectable limit in four dam sediments. Spores of aquatic hyphomycetes were directly released from the CPOM fractions of sediments upon bubble chamber incubation, while the FPM fractions produced spores indirectly by colonization of sterile leaf baits followed by bubble chamber incubation. The species richness and diversity in CPOM was higher than FPM in stream as well as dam sediments. The Sorensen's similarity indices between the fungal flora of CPOM in stream (66.7-81.8%) and dam (69.2-88%) locations were generally higher than FPM. The spore output per mg CPOM was between 1215 (dam) and 3384 (stream). The species richness was negatively correlated with Cr (P < 0.01; r = -1.000) of stream sediments, while it was negatively correlated with organic carbon (P < 0.05; r = -0.740) and positively correlated with K (P < 0.05; r = 0.750) of dam sediments. Occurrence and survival of aquatic hyphomycetes in hyporheic habitats of freshwater bodies indicate the importance of such zones as reservoir of fungal inoculum necessary in fundamental functions such as organic matter processing and energy flow. The present study provides baseline data on the sediment quality and fungal composition of stream and dam locations of River Kali of Kaiga region, which will develop as center of industrial activities in future. Crown Copyright (C) 2012 Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Sudheep, Naga Mangala; Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah] Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalore 574199, Karnataka, India; [Sridhar, Kandikere Ramaiah] Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalore 574199, Karnataka, India								5							Limnology	WOS:000303176100001		
J	Concenco, G.; Ceccon, G.; Sereia, R. C.; Correia, I. V. T.; Galon, L.								PHYTOSOCIOLOGY IN AGRICULTURAL AREAS SUBMITTED TO DISTINCT WINTERCROPPING MANAGEMENT								PLANTA DANINHA				30	2			297	304		10.1590/S0100-83582012000200008			APR-JUN 2012	2012	Studies related to weed dynamics are essential for agricultural sustainability in tropical soils, as their interference can cause significant yield losses, especially in crops with lower competitive ability. This study aimed to assess the composition of weed communities in the third cropping season in areas submitted to distinct wintercroppings for two consecutive years. Evaluations were made in terms of species composition, level of infestation, and severity of occurrence of each weed species in relation to the others within the same area. The wintercropping management systems were: (1) Brachiaria ruziziensis; (2) corn intercropped with B. ruziziensis; (3) corn and (4) cowpea. Plant communities under these wintercrop systems were evaluated in the third year in terms of relative frequency, relative dominance, relative abundance and importance index for each species. Areas were also compared in terms of species composition by the Sorensen's similarity coefficient. Two years of distinct wintercrop managements were not enough to cause a significant shift in terms of weed composition and severity in a given area. There is also evidence that some weed species are more favored by specific crops, although the causes of this selective behavior are not fully explored in this article. The presence of B. ruziziensis, either alone or intercropped with corn, resulted in lower similarity coefficients when compared to areas where this species was not present. It is suggested that several mechanisms briefly discussed may be involved in the impact of the presence of B. ruziziensis on the weed community.		[Concenco, G.] Brazilian Co Agr Res EMBRAPA, Western Reg Agr Res Ctr CPAO, Dourados City, MS, Brazil; [Ceccon, G.; Sereia, R. C.; Correia, I. V. T.] Embrapa CPAO, Dourados City, Brazil; [Galon, L.] Univ Fed Pampas UFP, Itaqui City, RS, Brazil; [Concenco, G.] Brazilian Co Agr Res EMBRAPA, Western Reg Agr Res Ctr CPAO, Dourados City, MS, Brazil								4							Plant Sciences	WOS:000305765000008		
J	Zargaran, Mohammed Reza; Erbilgin, Nadir; Ghosta, Youbert								Changes in Oak Gall Wasps Species Diversity (Hymenoptera: Cynipidae) in Relation to the Presence of Oak Powdery Mildew (<i>Erysiphe alphitoides</i>)								ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES				51	2			175	184					MAR 2012	2012	Mohammed Reza Zargaran, Nadir Erbilgin, and Youbert Ghosta (2012) Changes in oak gall wasps species diversity (Hymenoptera: Cynipidae) in relation to the presence of oak powdery mildew (Erysiphe alphitoides). Zoological Studies 51(2): 175-184. Plant-mediated interactions usually lead to multipartite interactions in a community of organisms. To evaluate the impact of oak powdery mildew Erysiphe alphitoides infestation on the distributions of cynipid oak gall wasps (Hymenoptera: Cynipidae), a field survey was conducted in West Azerbaijan Province, Iran, in 2 consecutive years of 2009-2010. Multiple samples were taken from both infected and uninfected trees (Quercus spp.) at 4 different sites where maximum activity of E. alphitoides occurred and cynipid galls exhibited complete development. The species diversity and richness of gall-forming wasps were estimated and also parameters such as Simpson's index, Shannon's H', and the Sorensen similarity quotient were calculated. Data were also analyzed by independent-samples t-test to compare the mean numbers of galls occurring on infected and uninfected trees. Results clearly indicated that the highest richness and diversity of oak gall-forming wasps were consistently found on uninfected trees at all study sites in the 2 consecutive years. Further, the number and diversity of gall-forming wasps were negatively correlated with the extent (percentage) of pathogen infection, and trees with the heaviest E. alphitoides infection had the lowest numbers of gall-forming wasps. In addition, E. alphitoides decreased the rate of Sorensen's coefficient between regions where oak trees infected with E. alphitoides were sampled. This study demonstrates plant-mediated interactions between a native pathogen and a community of gall-forming insects on oak trees. http://zoolstud.sinica.edu.tw/Journals/51.2/175.pdf		[Zargaran, Mohammed Reza; Ghosta, Youbert] Urmia Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Plant Protect, Orumiyeh, Iran; [Erbilgin, Nadir] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3, Canada; [Zargaran, Mohammed Reza] Urmia Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Plant Protect, Sero Rd,POB 165, Orumiyeh, Iran								6							Zoology	WOS:000301691500005		
J	Siver, Peter A.; Lott, Anne M.								Biogeographic patterns in scaled chrysophytes from the east coast of North America								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				57	3			451	466		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02711.x			MAR 2012	2012	1. We assessed the distribution of scaled chrysophytes in fresh waters along 3200 km of the east coast of North America (29 degrees to 48 degrees N) to determine any biogeographic patterns in relation to chemical, physical, climatic and spatial variables. 2. Scaled chrysophytes were identified using scanning electron microscopy and counted from 264 waterbodies in nine regions (20 subregions). Eighteen chemical, physical and climate variables were determined for each waterbody. We used Sorensen's similarity index and analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) to evaluate whether the floras differed between regions, subregions, glaciated and non-glaciated areas, as well as within sets of waterbodies with similar chemical and physical characteristics but situated in different regions. Distance-based linear modelling (DISTLM) was used to evaluate the relative importance of the chemical, physical and climate factors in explaining the variability in the assemblages of scaled chrysophytes, and the resulting models were visualised using redundancy analysis (RDA). 3. Significant differences in the flora were found between all regions and most subregions, and between glaciated and non-glaciated areas. Significant differences were also recorded between waterbodies with similar chemical and physical characteristics but situated in different regions. Many species were abundant along specific sections of the latitudinal gradient, but lacking from others. A set of environmental variables explained significant and independent portions of the variation in scaled chrysophytes, with pH and mean minimum July temperature accounting for 20% of the total. 4. The distribution of scaled chrysophytes along the east coast of North America is not homogeneous and there are biogeographic patterns, despite apparent dispersal mechanisms (migratory birds and wind events) that might act to reduce differences between regions. Rather, differences exist even between neighbouring subregions containing sites with statistically similar chemical and physical attributes. Environmental variables clearly play a significant role in determining whether species will inhabit a given site. However, species were not always found in waterbodies likely to support growth, implicating inadequate dispersal, poor transportability or both.		[Siver, Peter A.; Lott, Anne M.] Connecticut Coll, Dept Bot, New London, CT 06320 USA; [Siver, Peter A.] Connecticut Coll, Dept Bot, New London, CT 06320 USA								31							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000299102000003		
J	van Strien, A. J.; Soldaat, L. L.; Gregory, R. D.								Desirable mathematical properties of indicators for biodiversity change								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				14	1			202	208		10.1016/j.ecolind.2011.07.007			MAR 2012	2012	Numerous indicator approaches are found in the scientific literature to describe changes in biodiversity. It is however far from clear which indicators are most appropriate and which are less suitable to summarize trends in biodiversity. One reason for this lack of clarity is that so far the mathematical properties of indicator approaches have had little attention. In this paper, we derive a number of desirable mathematical properties of indicators from economic price-index theory and apply these in the form of tests to W metrics to summarize changes in biodiversity. The metrics species richness, Simpson index, Shannon index, Buckland's modified Shannon index and Sorensen's similarity coefficient violate the monotonicity and proportionality test. The percentage of increasing minus declining species also fails the proportionality test, and in the case where trends are assessed relative to the preceding year, this metric also violates the identity test. Most of these indicators are sensitive to spatial scale. The arithmetic and geometric mean of population indices and the mean abundance have better mathematical performance, but the first two are sensitive to appearing and disappearing species in the system surveyed. The metric mean abundance however can only be applied under particular conditions and has some undesirable properties. Unlike the arithmetic mean, the geometric mean is not sensitive to the base year chosen and has the most favourable mathematical properties of the indicators evaluated. The geometric mean can be straightforwardly extended to take into account unequal values of species if desired. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[van Strien, A. J.; Soldaat, L. L.] Stat Netherlands, NL-2490 HA The Hague, Netherlands; [van Strien, A. J.] Univ Amsterdam, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Dynam, NL-1098 XH Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Gregory, R. D.] Royal Soc Protect Birds, Sandy SG19 2DL, Beds, England; [van Strien, A. J.] Stat Netherlands, POB 24500, NL-2490 HA The Hague, Netherlands								63							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000297564600025		
J	Jiao, Juying; Zhang, Zhenguo; Bai, Wenjuan; Jia, Yanfeng; Wang, Ning								Assessing the Ecological Success of Restoration by Afforestation on the Chinese Loess Plateau								RESTORATION ECOLOGY				20	2			240	249		10.1111/j.1526-100X.2010.00756.x			MAR 2012	2012	Afforestation has been accepted as a key measure for preventing soil erosion on the Chinese Loess Plateau for 40 years. In this study, we assessed the ecological success of afforestation by comparing afforested with pre-afforested (croplands) and natural recovery sites in a typical watershed on the Loess Plateau. We evaluated the ecosystem response in terms of vegetation structure, plant diversity, and several key ecological processes of soil moisture, soil nutrients, and soil anti-erodibility. Compared with the croplands, we found that the following indexes were significantly enhanced in afforested sites: vegetation structure and species diversity (species richness, Margalef index, ShannonWiener index, and Sorensen's similarity index), soil nutrients (organic carbon, total nitrogen, extractable ammonium nitrogen, available potassium, and available phosphorous), and soil anti-erodibility indexes (water-stable soil aggregates, mean weight diameter, and the ratio of soil structure dispersion). Afforestation offered few additional advantages when compared with natural recovery sites. More importantly, afforestation had significant negative effects on soil desiccation, with negative impacts on the long-term sustainability of these ecosystems. In order to develop self-sustaining and functional ecosystems, our results suggest that natural revegetation offers a more adaptive and appropriate method of ecological restoration on the Loess Plateau.		[Jiao, Juying] NW A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Jiao, Juying; Zhang, Zhenguo; Bai, Wenjuan; Jia, Yanfeng; Wang, Ning] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Jiao, Juying; Zhang, Zhenguo; Bai, Wenjuan; Jia, Yanfeng; Wang, Ning] Minist Water Resources, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Jiao, Juying] NW A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								132							Ecology	WOS:000301048900014		
J	Nucci, A.; Angiolini, C.; Landi, M.; Bacchetta, G.								Influence of bedrock-alluvial transition on plant species distribution along a Mediterranean river corridor								PLANT BIOSYSTEMS				146	3			564	575		10.1080/11263504.2012.670669			2012	2012	The variation of riparian plant species composition along a river according to lithological features, forming more or less discrete plant assemblages, was tested using multivariate and univariate analyses. Moreover, Sorensen's index was applied to examine similarity between geological and floristic groups, and the Wilson-Shmida index to investigate species turnover. The analyses were based on field data recorded along a Mediterranean river (Rio Santa Lucia, Sardinia, Italy), where the morphology is influenced by the bedrock-alluvial transition. The results obtained from the various analytical techniques were in close agreement, and underlined that the lithological types exerted an important influence on the distribution and richness (peak in the medium and the upper river part) of riparian plants, but also in their life forms (woody species and hemicryptophytes). The distribution patterns of species along the river suggested that primary drivers in the organization of the riparian plant communities were lithological types, geomorphology and altitude. Moreover, the bedrock-alluvial transition marked the highest species turnover, linked also to a different degree of human disturbance. The results of the present study indicate that the bedrock/alluvial influence is an integral component of the patch structure, which strongly influences riparian plant distribution patterns in a Mediterranean environment.		[Angiolini, C.; Landi, M.] Univ Siena, Dipartimento Sci Ambientali G Sarfatti, Siena, Italy; [Nucci, A.; Bacchetta, G.] Univ Cagliari, Dipartimento Sci Bot, Ctr Conservaz Biodiversita CCB, I-090123 Cagliari, Italy; [Angiolini, C.] Univ Siena, Dipartimento Sci Ambientali G Sarfatti, Via PA Mattioli 13, Siena, Italy								13							Plant Sciences	WOS:000308978200008		
J	da Silva, Katia Emidio; Martins, Sebastiao Venancio; Alvares Soares Ribeiro, Carlos Antonio; Santos, Nerilson Terra; de Azevedo, Celso Paulo; de Almeida Matos, Francisca Dionizia; do Amaral, Ieda Leao								Floristic composition and similarity of 15 hectares in Central Amazon, Brazil								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				59	4			1927	1938					DEC 2011	2011	The Amazon region is one of the most diverse areas in the world. Research on high tropical forest diversity brings up relevant contributions to understand the mechanisms that result and support such diversity. In the present study we describe the species composition and diversity of 15 one-ha plots in the Amazonian terra firme dense forest in Brazil, and compare the floristic similarity of these plots with other nine one-ha plots. The 15 plots studied were randomly selected from permanent plots at the Embrapa Experimental site, Amazonas State in 2005. The diversity was analysed by using species richness and Shannon's index, and by applying the Sorensen's index for similarity and unweighted pair-group average (UPGMA) as clustering method. Mantel test was performed to study whether the differences in species composition between sites could be explained by the geographic distance between them. Overall, we identified 8 771 individuals, 264 species and 51 plant families. Most of the species were concentrated in few families and few had large number of individuals. Families presenting the highest species richness were Fabaceae (Faboideae: 22spp., Mimosoideae: 22spp.), Sapotaceae: 22spp., Lecythidaceae: 15 and Lauraceae: 13. Burseraceae had the largest number of individuals with 11.8% of the total. The ten most abundant species were: Protium hebetatum ( I 037 individuals), Eschweilera coriacea (471), Licania oblongifolia (310), Pouteria minima (293), Ocotea cernua (258), Scleronema micranthum (197), Eschweilera collina (176), Licania apelata (172), Naucleopsis caloneura (170) and Psidium araca (152), which represented 36.5% of all individuals. Approximately 49% of species had up to ten individuals and 13% appeared only once in all sampled plots, showing a large occurrence of rare species. Our study area is on a forest presenting a high tree species diversity with Shannon's diversity index of 4.49. The dendrogram showed two groups of plots with low similarity between them (less than 0.25), and the closer the plots were one to another, more similar in species composition (Mantel R=0.3527, p<0.01). The 15 plots in our study area share more than 50% of their species composition and represent the group of plots that have the shortest distance between each other. Overall, our results highlight the high local and regional heterogeneity of environments in terra firme forests, and the high occurrence of rare species, which should be considered in management and conservation programs in the Amazon rainforest, in order to maintain its structure on the long run. Rev. Biol. Trop. 59(4): 1927-1938. Epub 2011 December 01.		[da Silva, Katia Emidio] Embrapa Amazonia Ocidental, Brazilian Agr Res Corp, BR-69010970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Martins, Sebastiao Venancio; Alvares Soares Ribeiro, Carlos Antonio] Univ Fed Vicosa, Forestry Engn Dept, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Santos, Nerilson Terra] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Stat, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [de Almeida Matos, Francisca Dionizia; do Amaral, Ieda Leao] INPA CPBO, Inst Nacl Pesquisas Amazonia, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [da Silva, Katia Emidio] Embrapa Amazonia Ocidental, Brazilian Agr Res Corp, Rodovia AM010,POB 319, BR-69010970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								13							Biology	WOS:000298768500040		
J	Danquah, Jones Abrefa; Appiah, Mark; Ari, Pappinen								Comparison of post-fire planted and natural dry semi-deciduous forest communities in Ghana								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH				6	23			5266	5277					OCT 19 2011	2011	The planting of mixed indigenous tree species for reforestation has gained attention in conservation biology, because they allow the recruitment of other woody species to a site. This study compared the differences in tree species diversity, structure, and composition between secondary dry semi-deciduous forests on two previously burned sites; one site had been planted ten-years prior with mixed mahogany species, while the other naturally regenerated after the fire. Density, dominance, frequency and importance value index (IVI) as well as family important values index (FIV) were computed to evaluate the floristic composition. A variety of diversity measures were also employed to examine heterogeneity in each forest type. For both sites, the most abundant diameter-class was 5-10 cm and the most abundant height-class was 1- 10 m. The study recorded significant differences between the two sites with respect to nearly all the indices of species diversity (Simpson, P = 0.037; Shannon, P = 0.003 and species richness, P = 0.003) employed, with the exception of Pielou's index of evenness (P = 0.06). The planted site recorded highest values for all the measures of species diversity. However, Sorensen's similarity index between planted and natural regeneration sites was 0.703. Seventeen and five species respectively were found to be solely associated with the planted and natural regeneration sites. At both sites the four most dominant and abundant tree species which recorded highest importance value index (IVI) were Ficus exasperate, Terminalia superba, Morida lucida, and Antiaris toxicaria. The greatest family importance values (FVI) for both sites were for Moraceae and Fabaceae, especially its sub-family Mimosaceae. The paper concludes that, use of mixed indigenous tree species in restoration facilitate the recruitment of a diverse group of other native tree species.		[Danquah, Jones Abrefa; Ari, Pappinen] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Fac Sci & Forestry, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland; [Appiah, Mark] Univ Helsinki, Viikki Trop Resources Inst, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Danquah, Jones Abrefa] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Fac Sci & Forestry, POB 111, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland								2							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000298504300011		
J	Dainou, Kasso; Bauduin, Aline; Bourland, Nils; Gillet, Jean-Francois; Feteke, Fousseni; Doucet, Jean-Louis								Soil seed bank characteristics in Cameroonian rainforests and implications for post-logging forest recovery								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				37	10			1499	1506		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2011.05.004			OCT 2011	2011	The soil seed bank is considered as an important component for resilience of climacic vegetation. Whereas several related studies have been conducted in Asian, American and some African tropical forests, no investigation has ever been conducted in Central African rainforests, especially in logged forests where the soil seed bank could contribute to regeneration of timber of trees species. We studied the soil seed bank characteristics in relation to the standing vegetation in three Cameroonian forest zones with different disturbance regimes. There was no significant difference between sites in terms of density of the seed bank; the average mean density was 87.6 seeds m(-2). But dissimilarities of the floristic compositions between sites were quite high. Overall, seeds came from 43 species including three commercial tree species. Whereas the seedlings emerging from soil samples mostly came from weedy and short-lived pioneer species, climax species predominated in the extant vegetation, leading to a very weak similarity between soil seed flora and the surrounding vegetation: Sorensen's index ranged from 3.5 to 7.6%. Canopy openness could significantly affect the species richness of soil seed stocks but not the seed density. These results show that the soil seed bank contribution to the resilience of mature tropical forests is low. In particular, very few timber tree species could benefit from soil seed stocks for their regeneration. Therefore, the development of enrichment techniques including use of the soil seed bank as a source of tree regeneration in such a context would be irrelevant. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Dainou, Kasso; Bauduin, Aline; Bourland, Nils; Gillet, Jean-Francois; Feteke, Fousseni; Doucet, Jean-Louis] Univ Liege, Unit Forest & Nat Management, Lab Trop & Subtrop Forestry, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium; [Feteke, Fousseni] Pallisco SARL, Douala, Cameroon; [Dainou, Kasso] Univ Liege, Unit Forest & Nat Management, Lab Trop & Subtrop Forestry, 2 Passage Deportes, B-5030 Gembloux, Belgium								40							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000293727700008		
J	Martinez, Gustavo J.; Lujan, Maria C.								Medicinal plants used for traditional veterinary in the Sierras de Cordoba (Argentina): An ethnobotanical comparison with human medicinal uses								JOURNAL OF ETHNOBIOLOGY AND ETHNOMEDICINE				7						23	10.1186/1746-4269-7-23			AUG 4 2011	2011	Background: This is a first description of the main ethnoveterinary features of the peasants in the Sierras de Cordoba. The aim of this study was to analyze the use of medicinal plants and other traditional therapeutic practices for healing domestic animals and cattle. Our particular goals were to: characterize veterinary ethnobotanical knowledge considering age, gender and role of the specialists; interpret the cultural features of the traditional local veterinary medicine and plant uses associated to it; compare the plants used in traditional veterinary medicine, with those used in human medicine in the same region. Methods: Fieldwork was carried out as part of an ethnobotanic regional study where 64 informants were interviewed regarding medicinal plants used in veterinary medicine throughout 2001-2010. Based participant observation and open and semi-structured interviews we obtained information on the traditional practices of diagnosis and healing, focusing on the veterinary uses given to plants (part of the plant used, method of preparation and administration). Plants speciemens were collected with the informants and their vernacular and scientific names were registered in a database. Non-parametric statistic was used to evaluate differences in medicinal plant knowledge, use, and valorization by local people. A comparison between traditional veterinary medicine and previous human medicine studies developed in the region was performed by analyzing the percentages of common species and uses, and by considering Sorensen's Similarity Index. Results: A total of 127 medicinal uses were registered, corresponding to 70 species of plants belonging to 39 botanic families. Veterinary ethnobotanical knowledge was specialized, restricted, in general, to cattle breeders (mainly men) and to a less degree to healers, and was independent of the age of the interviewees. Native plants were mostly used as skin cicatrizants, disinfectants or for treating digestive disorders. Together with a vast repertoire of plant pharmacopoeia, the therapies also involve religious or ritualistic practices and other popular remedies that evidence the influence of traditional Hispanic-European knowledge. Although the traditional veterinary knowledge seems to be similar or else is inlcuded in the local human ethnomedicine, sharing a common group of plants, it has distinct traits originated by a constant assessment of new applications specifically destined to the treatment of animals. Conclusions: Veterinary medicine is a fountain of relevant vernacular knowledge, a permanent source for testing new applications with valuable ethnobotanical interest. Knowledge on medicinal applications of native plants will allow future validations and tests for new homeopathic or phytotherapeutic preparations.		[Martinez, Gustavo J.] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Conicet Museo Antropol, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Lujan, Maria C.] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Fac Ciencias Quim, Inst Multidisciplinario Biol Vegetal IMBIV CONICE, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina; [Martinez, Gustavo J.] Univ Nacl Cordoba, Conicet Museo Antropol, Hipolito Irigoyen 174, RA-5000 Cordoba, Argentina								38							Biodiversity Conservation; Plant Sciences; Pharmacology & Pharmacy	WOS:000294499700001		
J	Gomes Souto, Marco Antonio; Torres Boeger, Maria Regina								STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION OF THE REGENERATION STRATUM AND ASSOCIATED VEGETATION OF DIFFERENT SUCCESSION STAGES IN EAST OF PARANA STATE								CIENCIA FLORESTAL				21	3			393	407					JUL-SEP 2011	2011	In recent decades, the human activities caused the overall decline in biodiversity and, to understand the impacts on plant communities, it is necessary to analyze the regenerative potential of the forest. Studies on the floristic composition and the structure of the guild of seedlings in different succession stages and historical conditions can describe the patterns of species replacement and help understand the forest dynamics. Thus, the objective of this study was to compare floristic and structural layer of the regeneration and associated vegetation in two succession stages of two areas with different historical uses located in the city of Campina Grande do Sul, in Parana state. Seedlings were collected in two fragments of the secondary forest at the initial and at the intermediate stages, with historical use of clear and selective cuts, respectively. One-hundred and six plots of 0,16 m(2) were delimited and all individual plants with up to 10 - 50 cm high were collected, identified, quantified and divided into two groups: seedlings of tree species and species associated for the phytosociological analysis. The species were also classified according to their habits, dispersion mode and succession stages and the floristic similarity between areas was established by Sorensen's, Bray & Curtis' and Morisita-Horn's indices. The analysis suggests a possible influence of historical use and the successional stages of regeneration and the associated vegetation. The analysis of similarity indicates a gradient of regeneration, in which the intermediate stage of the clear cut area is similar to the early stage of the selective cutting area.		[Torres Boeger, Maria Regina] Univ Fed Parana, Setor Ciencias Biol, Dept Bot, BR-81970990 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Gomes Souto, Marco Antonio] Rua Augusto Marques 1637, BR-14400480 Franca, SP, Brazil								2							Plant Sciences; Forestry	WOS:000297644400001		
J	Concenco, G.; Salton, J. C.; Secretti, M. L.; Mendes, P. B.; Brevilieri, R. C.; Galon, L.								EFFECT OF LONG-TERM AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ON OCCURRENCE AND COMPOSITION OF WEED SPECIES								PLANTA DANINHA				29	3			515	522		10.1590/S0100-83582011000300005			JUL-SEP 2011	2011	This study aims to assess the composition of weed communities as a function of distinct selection factors, at neighboring areas submitted to distinct soil management and diverse use for sixteen years. Four areas submitted to distinct managements (conventional tillage system; no-till system; integration crop/livestock and continuous livestock) were sampled in relation to the occurrence and severity of weed species by the beginning of the planting season, being estimated the relative abundance, relative frequency and relative dominance of each weed species under each area, as well as the Importance Value Index for each species. Areas were also compared by the Sorensen's similarity coefficient. Areas where pasture and grazing were never present, exhibited a number of seedlings of weed species 250% higher than areas periodically or continuously under grazing, while the area of soil covered by weeds was 87% superior at the conventional tillage system in relation to the average of the other treatments. Grass weeds were the most important at the conventional tillage area while broadleaved weeds where more important at the no-till area, probably due also to herbicide selection factors. Under crop/livestock integration there may be the need to care about controlling seedlings of the forage species inside grain crops in succession.		[Concenco, G.] Embrapa Western Agr CPAO, Dourados, MS, Brazil; [Salton, J. C.; Secretti, M. L.; Mendes, P. B.] Embrapa CPAO, Dourados, MS, Brazil; [Secretti, M. L.] Univ Estadual Mato Grosso do Sul UEMS, Mato Grosso, MS, Brazil; [Mendes, P. B.] Ctr Univ Grande Dourados UNIGRAN, Dourados, MS, Brazil; [Brevilieri, R. C.] Univ Estadual Mato Grosso do Sul, Dourados, MS, Brazil; [Galon, L.] Univ Fed Pampa UNIPAMPA, Itaqui, RS, Brazil; [Concenco, G.] Embrapa Western Agr CPAO, Dourados, MS, Brazil								7							Plant Sciences	WOS:000296064900005		
J	Bhat, P. Rama; Kaveriappa, K. M.								Rhizoplane mycoflora of some species of Myristicaceae of the Western Ghats, India								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				52	2			163	175					MAY 2011	2011	Rhizoplane mycoflora of Gymnacranthera farquhariana, Knema attenuata, Myristica dactyloides, M. fatua var. magnifica and M. malabarica was studied by root washing and root plating methods. The root samples along with adhering soil were collected from the rhizosphere regions of each tree species in three seasons - summer, monsoon and post-monsoon - - over a period of two years from the forests of Gersoppa, Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka. Soil physico-chemical properties, including moisture, temperature, pH, electrical conductivity, and organic matter and total N, P, K, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mn, Mg, Na and Zn content, were also analyzed. A total of 37 species of fungi were isolated from the rhizoplane region of five tree species. Sorensen's index showed the similarity between the mycoflora of rhizoplane regions to range from 34.6 to 54.6 %. Among the five tree species, a maximum of 24 fungal species were isolated from the rhizoplane of K attenuata and M. fatua var. magnifica, followed by 22 species in M. dactyloides and M malabarica, and 20 species in G. farquhariana. Nine species were common to the rhizoplane of all the five tree species and nine species were observed in the rhizoplane of only one of the five tree species. The maximum number of fungal species was recorded during monsoon in all plant species and the minimum during post-monsoon and summer. The physico-chemical properties of the rhizosphere soil differed among plant species in different seasons. The dominant genera in terms of number of fungal species were Penicillium and Aspergillus. The rhizoplane fungal population for each plant species in different seasons was correlated with physico-chemical properties of respective seasons, and found that it was significant in some of the seasons or for some parameters only.		[Bhat, P. Rama] Alvas Coll, Post Grad Dept Biotechnol, Moodbidri 574227, Karnataka, India; [Kaveriappa, K. M.] Mangalore Univ, Dept Appl Bot, Mangalagangothri 574199, Karnataka, India; [Bhat, P. Rama] Alvas Coll, Post Grad Dept Biotechnol, Moodbidri 574227, Karnataka, India								2							Ecology	WOS:000288637900003		
J	Costa Lima, Pedro Glecio; Coelho-Ferreira, Marlia; Oliveira, Regina								Medicinal plants at fairs and public markets of the Sustainable Forest District of BR-163, Para state, Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				25	2			422	434		10.1590/S0102-33062011000200018			APR-JUN 2011	2011	(Medicinal plants at fairs and public markets of the Sustainable Forest District of BR-163, Para state, Brazil). Medicinal plants are non-timber forest products with great potential in the Sustainable Forest District of BR-163. In order to understand the productive chain from extractive medicinal plants marketed at emporiums, fairs and public markets of districts of this area, semi-structured interviews with 20 vendors of medicinal plants were carried out. Species richness was estimated by Bootstrap and similarity among the districts studied was analyzed by Sorensen's Index. 46 medicinal plants belonging to 42 genera and 21 botanical families were identified. Fabaceae, Anacardiaceae and Bignoniaceae were the most representative botanical families. The expected richness for the sample was 50 species and additional collecting would increase by at least four items the general list of richness. Santarem, Itaituba and Altamira share a larger number of species and the first is shown to be a diversified center of medicinal products, presenting the largest number of exclusive occurrences (14). The fairs and public markets are an important link of this distribution system, and should be included in government actions concerning public policies for health.		[Costa Lima, Pedro Glecio; Coelho-Ferreira, Marlia; Oliveira, Regina] Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Costa Lima, Pedro Glecio] Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Campus Pesquisa, Belem, Para, Brazil								17							Plant Sciences	WOS:000294580700018		
J	Messina, Giuseppina; Montesanto, Giuseppe; Pezzino, Elisa; Caruso, Domenico; Lombardo, Bianca M.								Diversity of terrestrial isopods in a protected area characterized by salty coastal ponds (Vendicari, Sicily)								JOURNAL OF NATURAL HISTORY				45	35-36			2145	2158		10.1080/00222933.2011.587899			2011	2011	The diversity of Oniscidean isopods was studied in Vendicari, a protected area in southeastern Sicily characterized by salty ponds separated from the sea by narrow bands of land. Samples were collected in pitfall traps placed in transects from the coastline to the ponds and from the ponds inland. Twenty-three species were identified, only seven of which were present at all sampling sites. Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness indices revealed higher values in the spring and autumn; activity indices were also calculated for each species for all months of the year. Similarity among sampling sites was evaluated qualitatively with Jaccard's index and quantitatively with Sorensen's index. The ponds seem to play the same role as the seacoasts regarding species zonation.		[Messina, Giuseppina; Montesanto, Giuseppe; Pezzino, Elisa; Caruso, Domenico; Lombardo, Bianca M.] Univ Catania, Dipartimento Biol Marcello La Greca, Catania, Italy; [Lombardo, Bianca M.] Univ Catania, Dipartimento Biol Marcello La Greca, Catania, Italy								31							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000292822200001		
J	Kwiatkowska-Falinska, Anna J.; Panufnik-Medrzycka, Dorota; Wodkiewicz, Maciej; Sondej, Izabela; Jaroszewicz, Bogdan								THE EFFECTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF WOODSTAND DISTURBANCE ON THE PERSISTENCE OF SOIL SEED BANKS								ACTA SOCIETATIS BOTANICORUM POLONIAE				80	2			149	157		10.5586/asbp.2011.025			2011	2011	The research was conducted on four patches of thermophilous oak wood in Bialowieza Primeval Forest: A - with a woodstand: oak + approx. 30-year-old hornbeam + hornbeam brushwood; B with a hornbeam stand formed by natural seed fall after logging (ca. 1920) oaks; C after logging oaks and replanted (ca. 1965) with pine and oak; D with a natural low-density oak stand. Species composition and seed bank density were estimated using the seedling emergence method. Seedling emergence was observed over two vegetation seasons. Research demonstrated that: 1) the species abundance of the seed banks depends on canopy cover (A, B approx. 50 species; C, D approx. 70 species); 2) the floristical similarity (Sorensen's index) of the seed bank and ground vegetation is higher in the undisturbed patch D (0.50) than in disturbed patches (0.30-0.35); 3) species diversity in plots A, B, C, D (H'=12.5; 13.4; 15.5; 16.9) and seed bank density per m(2) (432.5; 958.0; 1486.5; 2268.0) are negatively correlated with the degree of patch shading; 4) the average weight of diaspores in the seed banks of shady plots is lower (A, B approx. 0.003 g) than that of sunny plots (C, D approx. 0.08 g); 5) the share of long-lived diaspores increases in patches after logging.		[Kwiatkowska-Falinska, Anna J.; Jaroszewicz, Bogdan] Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol, Inst Bot, Bialowieza Geobot Stn, PL-17230 Bialowieza, Poland; [Panufnik-Medrzycka, Dorota; Wodkiewicz, Maciej] Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol, Inst Bot, Dept Plant Ecol & Nat Protect, PL-00478 Warsaw, Poland; [Sondej, Izabela] Univ Szczecin, Dept Anat & Vertebrate Zool, PL-71415 Szczecin, Poland; [Kwiatkowska-Falinska, Anna J.] Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol, Inst Bot, Bialowieza Geobot Stn, Sportowa 19, PL-17230 Bialowieza, Poland								8							Plant Sciences	WOS:000292493600007		
J	Hu, DianMing; Cai, Lei; Chen, Hang; Bahkali, Ali Hassan; Hyde, Kevin D.								Fungal diversity on submerged wood in a tropical stream and an artificial lake								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				19	13			3799	3808		10.1007/s10531-010-9927-5			DEC 2010	2010	Two collections of submerged wood were made from the Mushroom Research Centre in northern Thailand. One collection comprising 100 samples was made from an artificial lake, which had been made by damming a stream running through a secondary forest. The other collection comprising 90 samples was made from an adjacent non dammed shallow stream running through a similar forest. A total of 68 fungal taxa were recorded during the study and the Shannon-Weiner index (H') was applied to evaluate the diversities of freshwater fungi. Sorensen's index (S') was calculated to evaluate the similarity of different fungal communities. The variation of freshwater fungi on submerged wood between lentic and lotic habitat is discussed and compared with previous studies. A dramatic decrease in species richness and diversity, with significantly changed species composition were observed in the artificial lake as compared to the non dammed stream.		[Cai, Lei] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Systemat Mycol & Lichenol, Inst Microbiol, Beijing 100190, Peoples R China; [Hu, DianMing; Chen, Hang; Hyde, Kevin D.] Chinese Acad Forestry, Int Fungal Res & Dev Ctr, Res Inst Resource Insects, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China; [Hu, DianMing] Gannan Normal Univ, Sch Chem & Life Sci, Ganzhou 341000, Peoples R China; [Bahkali, Ali Hassan; Hyde, Kevin D.] King Saud Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Bot & Microbiol, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Hyde, Kevin D.] Mae Fah Luang Univ, Sch Sci, Chiang Rai, Thailand; [Cai, Lei] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Systemat Mycol & Lichenol, Inst Microbiol, 10 N 4th Ring Rd W, Beijing 100190, Peoples R China								33							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000284063100010		
J	Li, Xiaoshuang; Liu, Wenyao; Tang, Cindy Q.								The role of the soil seed and seedling bank in the regeneration of diverse plant communities in the subtropical Ailao Mountains, Southwest China								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				25	6			1171	1182		10.1007/s11284-010-0742-y			NOV 2010	2010	We compared species composition and diversity of the soil seed and seedling banks in three secondary vegetation types (shrubland, Populus bonatii forest, Lithocarpus regrowth forest) and a primary old-growth forest in the subtropical Ailao Mountains of southwestern China to clarify the importance of seed and seedling banks for forest dynamics. The average species richness was the highest in soil samples from the shrubland (26.80 +/- A 1.98), and the lowest from the primary forest (9.93 +/- A 0.50). The density of germinable tree seeds increased from the secondary vegetation to the primary forest, and the density of shrub, forb, and graminoid seeds decreased significantly. The most abundant seedlings recorded in soil samples were light-demanding species in the shrubland and Populus bonatii forest. For ground flora, the number of shrub seedlings strongly decreased with the increase in stand age, and shade-tolerant tree seedlings tended to increase. The species similarity between the seed bank and the aboveground vegetation in all sites was low (Sorensen's index = 0.11-0.33), however, the shrubland had higher similarity compared with the other three plant communities. In the primary forest, light-demanding woody species dominated in soil seed banks, while shade-tolerant species dominated in the overstory and the forest floor. In the primary forest, seedlings of dominant tree species were rare in the understory, and no seeds of the dominant species were found in the soil. Results indicated that the early stages of vegetation recovery should take into account the possibility of recovering soil seed bank processes. However, colonization and establishment of tree seedlings will be difficult once a primary forest is destroyed.		[Li, Xiaoshuang; Liu, Wenyao] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Trop Forest Ecol, Xishuangbanna Trop Bot Garden, Kunming 650223, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaoshuang] Chinese Acad Sci, Grad Sch, Beijing 100039, Peoples R China; [Liu, Wenyao] Curtin Univ Technol, Sch Environm Biol, Perth, WA 6845, Australia; [Tang, Cindy Q.] Yunnan Univ, Inst Ecol & Geobot, Kunming 650091, Peoples R China; [Liu, Wenyao] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Trop Forest Ecol, Xishuangbanna Trop Bot Garden, Kunming 650223, Peoples R China								12							Ecology	WOS:000284422200013		
J	Kharwar, Ravindra N.; Gond, Surendra K.; Kumar, Anuj; Mishra, Ashish								A comparative study of endophytic and epiphytic fungal association with leaf of Eucalyptus citriodora Hook., and their antimicrobial activity								WORLD JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY & BIOTECHNOLOGY				26	11			1941	1948		10.1007/s11274-010-0374-y			NOV 2010	2010	Eucalyptus citriodora Hook, is frequently cultivated tree in India for its wood and medicinal usages. The endophytic and epiphytic fungi were estimated from healthy leaves of E. citriodora growing in the premise of Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, India. A total of 33 fungal species were isolated from leaf segments. Of 33 taxa, 20 were recorded as endophytes, while 22 as epiphytes. Nine, out of 33 species were found to be common in leaf tissues and surfaces (Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus fumigatus, A. terreus, Cladosporium cladosporioides, Drechslera rostrata, Humicola grisea, Nigrospora oryzae, Penicillium cristata, and Pestalotia sp.). Out of 478 fungal isolates, 279 were epiphytic while only 199 were endophytic. Most isolates were anamorphic filamentous fungi which often don't produce sexual spores. The Sorensen's index of similarity between endophytes and epiphytes (leaf surface colonizers) was found to be at 0.300. Diversity index of fungal species was higher in endophytes than epiphytes. The frequency of colonization differs greatly in both myco-populations. Cladosporium cladosporioides (26%) was dominant species on leaf surfaces while Botrytis cinerea (10.5%) was dominant in leaf tissues. Out of 16 endophytic isolates evaluated for antagonistic test, 8 (50%) gave the antagonistic activity against variety of fungi representing pathogens to both humans and plants.		[Kharwar, Ravindra N.; Gond, Surendra K.; Kumar, Anuj; Mishra, Ashish] BHU, Dept Bot, Mycopathol & Microbial Technol Lab, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kharwar, Ravindra N.] BHU, Dept Bot, Mycopathol & Microbial Technol Lab, Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India								53							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology	WOS:000282507400002		
J	Ives, Anthony R.; Helmus, Matthew R.								Phylogenetic Metrics of Community Similarity								AMERICAN NATURALIST				176	5			E128	E142		10.1086/656486			NOV 2010	2010	We derive a new metric of community similarity that takes into account the phylogenetic relatedness among species. This metric, phylogenetic community dissimilarity (PCD), can be partitioned into two components, a nonphylogenetic component that reflects shared species between communities (analogous to Sorensen's similarity metric) and a phylogenetic component that reflects the evolutionary relationships among nonshared species. Therefore, even if a species is not shared between two communities, it will increase the similarity of the two communities if it is phylogenetically related to species in the other community. We illustrate PCD with data on fish and aquatic macrophyte communities from 59 temperate lakes. Dissimilarity between fish communities associated with environmental differences between lakes often has a phylogenetic component, whereas this is not the case for macrophyte communities. With simulations, we then compare PCD with two other metrics of phylogenetic community similarity, Pi(ST) and UniFrac. Of the three metrics, PCD was best at identifying environmental drivers of community dissimilarity, showing lower variability and greater statistical power. Thus, PCD is a statistically powerful metric that separates the effects of environmental drivers on compositional versus phylogenetic components of community structure.		[Ives, Anthony R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Zool, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Helmus, Matthew R.] Chinese Acad Sci, Xishuangbanna Trop Bot Garden, Key Lab Trop Forest Ecol, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Ives, Anthony R.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Zool, Madison, WI 53706 USA								79							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000282369900002		
J	Tompkins, Robert D.; Stringer, William C.; Richardson, Keith; Mikhailova, Elena A.; Bridges, William C., Jr.								BIG BLUESTEM (<i>ANDROPOGON GERARDII</i>; POACEAE) COMMUNITIES IN THE CAROLINAS: COMPOSITION AND ECOLOGICAL FACTORS								RHODORA				112	952			378	395		10.3119/09-09.1			OCT-DEC 2010	2010	Andropogon gerardii (Big Bluestem) is a dominant grass of the North American tallgrass prairie. It is also found in remnant populations in the eastern United States, including North and South Carolina, often in association with other species with prairie affinities. We characterized eight A. gerardii population sites across various physiographic regions of North and South Carolina. A total of 362 quadrats (1 m x 1 m) were sampled during the 2006-2008 growing seasons for species occurrence and site and quadrat frequency. Associated species were assigned a commonness index (CI). A Sorensen's Community Coefficient was used to determine floristic similarities among the sites. In addition, soil samples in three quadrats were sampled at each site at three depths (0-10 cm, 11-20 cm, and 21-30 cm) and analyzed for pH; organic C and N contents; extractable P. K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Mn; and CEC (cation exchange capacity). A total of 306 vascular plant species was identified comprising 64 families, including 99 (32%) graminoids. There were 61(20%) Poaceae and 63 (20%) Asteraceae. Species per quadrat ranged from 1 to 13 with a mean of 5. Andropogon gerardii had the highest CI value (5900), followed by Rubus spp. (1260). Community Coefficient values were < 0.5 for all pairings between sites, indicating high divergence in species composition among even nearby sites. There were 14 rare or watch-listed species identified, including the federal endangered Helianthus schweinitzii at Troy Prairie. A total of 153(50%) of the species had been previously described as occurring in prairie-like associations. Soil pH values varied from 4.8 to 6.9 among the sites and depths. Ca and Mg nutrient values were also highly variable. Andropogon gerardii was found at high frequencies across all sites, indicating its broad tolerance for a variety of edaphic conditions.		[Tompkins, Robert D.] Belmont Abbey Coll, Dept Biol, Belmont, NC 28012 USA; [Stringer, William C.] Clemson Univ, Dept Entomol Soils & Plant Sci, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Richardson, Keith] Belmont Abbey Coll, Dept Educ, Belmont, NC 28012 USA; [Mikhailova, Elena A.] Clemson Univ, Dept Forestry & Nat Resources, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Bridges, William C., Jr.] Clemson Univ, Dept Appl Econ & Stat, Clemson, SC 29634 USA; [Tompkins, Robert D.] Belmont Abbey Coll, Dept Biol, Belmont, NC 28012 USA								8							Plant Sciences	WOS:000288284800003		
J	da Costa, Fernanda Vieira; Oliveira, Karla Nunes; Ferreira Nunes, Yule Roberta; de Oliveira Menino, Gisele Cristina; Brandao, Diego Oliveira; de Araujo, Lucimar Soares; Miranda, Weslane Oliveira; D'Angelo Neto, Santos								FLORISTIC COMPOSITION AND WOOD COMMUNITY STRUCTURE OF TWO CERRADO <i>STRICTO SENSU</i> AREAS ON NORTH OF MINAS GERAIS								CERNE				16	3			267	281		10.1590/S0104-77602010000300003			JUL-SEP 2010	2010	This study aimed to compare floristic composition and the phytosociological structure between two fragments of strict sensu cerrado in Grao Mogol North of Minas Germs Brazil The tree communities were evaluated using the quarter point method In each fragment, points were distributed equidistant 10 m among them along six transects of 70 m, totaling 48 points per fragment It was measured, in each point, the height, CBH of four plants to the corresponding quarters in relation to central point It was considered the individual trees sampled with DHB >= 3 cm and height >= 1 5 in It was sampled a total of 73 species in the two fragments being 48 species in fragment I, distributed in 41 genera and 24 families, while 54 species were found in fragment 2, distributed in 47 genera and 28 families The most representative families were Fabaceae and Vochysiaceae The total density estimated jiff the fragment 1 was 1275 51 ind ha (1) and 1580 58 ind ha (1) to the fragment 2 In both fragments, Qualea parviflora and Eriotheca pubescens showed the highest importance value (IVI) The diversity (H') and equability (J) values were 3 13 and 0 87 for fragment and 3 27 and 0 84 for fragment 2, respectively The Sorensen's similarity index was 068 The diameter and height distribution of the study communities presented inverted-J form, indicating a positive balance between recruitment and mortality coming from the secondary sucessional process of the communities The study areas showed woody species richness pattern of the sensu stricto cerrado however, the area 2 showed higher floristic and structural values, indicating more advanced sucecsional stage		[da Costa, Fernanda Vieira; Oliveira, Karla Nunes; de Oliveira Menino, Gisele Cristina; D'Angelo Neto, Santos] Univ Estadual Montes Claros, Dept Biol Geral, Ctr Ciencias Biol & da Saude, BR-39401089 Montes Claros, MG, Brazil; [Ferreira Nunes, Yule Roberta] Univ Estadual Montes Claros, Dept Biol Geral, Lab Ecol & Propagacao Vegetal, BR-39401089 Montes Claros, MG, Brazil; [da Costa, Fernanda Vieira] Univ Estadual Montes Claros, Dept Biol Geral, Ctr Ciencias Biol & da Saude, Cx P 126, BR-39401089 Montes Claros, MG, Brazil								4							Forestry	WOS:000284861100003		
J	Wilson, Joseph S.; Williams, Kevin A.; Pitts, James P.								PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT OF VELVET ANT (HYMENOPTERA: MUTILLIDAE) DIVERSITY IN THE DESERTS OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA								WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST				70	2			224	232		10.3398/064.070.0209			JUL 2010	2010	The deserts of southern California house a diverse and unique insect fauna. Velvet ants (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae) are common in these deserts. Velvet ants are important to ecosystem health, particularly in desert environments, because they are parasitic on the bees and wasps that help maintain overall ecosystem function. The goal of this study was to measure velvet ant diversity across the deserts of southern California. We made preliminary collections from 10 sites in a variety of areas in the western Sonoran Desert (Colorado Desert), the Mojave Desert, and the Great Basin Desert. We measured beta-diversity using Sorensen's similarity index to compare velvet ant richness and relative abundance between different sites. To determine how accurate our similarity estimates were, and to gain an understanding of actual velvet ant diversity, we also compared velvet ant richness of 2 sites (Algodones Sand Dunes and Deep Canyon) using data obtained from the examination of museum specimens borrowed from over 12 museums across the West. Comparisons of velvet ant faunas between sites revealed low similarities (0.167-0.75 species richness only; 0.022-0.67 both abundance and richness). Low similarity values indicate that a rich velvet ant fauna exists in the deserts of southern California.		[Wilson, Joseph S.; Williams, Kevin A.; Pitts, James P.] Utah State Univ, Dept Biol, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Wilson, Joseph S.] Utah State Univ, Dept Biol, Logan, UT 84322 USA								5							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000280444400009		
J	Bradley, Adam F.; Crow, Garrett E.								THE FLORA AND VEGETATION OF TIMBER ISLAND, LAKE WINNIPESAUKEE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA								RHODORA				112	950			156	190		10.3119/06-05.1			APR-JUN 2010	2010	The vascular flora of Timber Island, the largest undeveloped island in Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, was surveyed, and a vegetation analysis conducted. The island was found to have 187 vascular plant species, none of which are listed as rare or endangered for the state. The combination of tree species found throughout Timber Island indicates a forest type characteristic of the Central New Hampshire region. In the vegetation analysis, abundance and frequency data were recorded from 106 study plots and analyzed using a two-way indicator species analysis program (TWINSPAN). Six cover types (CT) were defined: Pinus strobus-Gaylussacia baccata CT, Fagus grandifolia-Ostrya virginiana CT, Pinus resinosa-Gaylussacia baccata-Vaccinium angustifolium CT. Tsuga canadensis CT, Acer rubrum-Dulichium arundinaceum CT, and Ruderal CT. Two additional cover types were recognized through qualitative field observation alone: Shoreline CT, and Vernal Woodland Pool CT. While not included in the floristic analysis, twenty-four bryophyte species were documented on the island, 15 of which are new records for Belknap County. A modified Line Intercept Analysis, employed to quantify ground cover, showed that herbaceous plant and bryophyte cover was sparse (7% each), with duff and leaf litter covering 74%, exposed rock outcrop 8%, vernal pools 3%, and 1% disturbed or bare soil. Soil analysis revealed a weak correlation with cover type. Two indices of similarity, Sorensen's Index and the Simple Matching Index, were utilized to compare the vascular plant flora of Timber Island to three other island floras in Lake Winnipesaukee: Rattlesnake Island, Bear Island, and Three Mile Island. Sorensen's Index showed a 50.0% similarity with Bear Island, 51.1% with Rattlesnake Island, and 52.7% with Three Mile Island. The Simple Matching Index showed higher levels of similarity: Bear Island, 51.66%; Rattlesnake Island 59.51%; and Three Mile Island 65.59%.		[Bradley, Adam F.; Crow, Garrett E.] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Biol Sci, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Bradley, Adam F.] POB 402, Poughkeepsie, NY 12602 USA								2							Plant Sciences	WOS:000280217800003		
J	Pearman, J. K.; Taylor, J. E.; Kinghorn, J. R.								Fungi in aquatic habitats near St Andrews in Scotland								MYCOSPHERE				1	1			11	21					2010	2010	The species composition and diversity of wood inhabiting fungi was compared in three aquatic habitats, a marine, an estuarine and a freshwater site, in order to determine whether the species present in these areas are cosmopolitan, or if there is a distinct separation between the sites correlated with the change in water conditions. Both molecular and morphological analysis were used for identification purposes. In total 35 species were observed, and three of these species, Fusarium sp. 1, Orbilia sp. and Neonectria lucida, were found at more than one site. Seventeen species were observed in both the freshwater and estuarine sites (Kinness Burn and Guardbridge, respectively), but only four were present at Kinkell Rocks, the marine site. The Shannon Wiener Diversity Index was highest for the freshwater Kinness Burn site (2.8) and lowest for the marine Kinkell Rocks (1.33). The Sorensen's Index of Similarity confirmed that there were no species in common between the marine site, and either of the other sites. The Index between the estuarine and freshwater sites (0.18) suggest that there is some overlap in species composition, but there was still a wide variation in species identity between the two sites. The diversity of the mycota inhabiting the aquatic environments decreased in more saline habitats. The ratio of anamorphs to teleomorphs decreased with a reduction in salinity. Ascomycetes were the most prevalent group of fungi on the wood substrate in the freshwater and estuarine sites.		[Pearman, J. K.] Univ Warwick, Dept Biol Sci, Gibbet Hill Rd, Coventry CV4 7AL, W Midlands, England; [Kinghorn, J. R.] Univ St Andrews, Dept Biol, St Andrews KY16 9TH, Fife, Scotland; [Pearman, J. K.] Univ Warwick, Dept Biol Sci, Gibbet Hill Rd, Coventry CV4 7AL, W Midlands, England								7							Mycology	WOS:000209508900002		
J	La Valley, Kenneth J.; Jones, Steve; Gomez-Chiarri, Marta; Dealteris, Joseph; Rice, Michael								BACTERIAL COMMUNITY PROFILING OF THE EASTERN OYSTER (<i>CRASSOSTREA VIRGINICA</i>): COMPARISON OF CULTURE-DEPENDENT AND CULTURE-INDEPENDENT OUTCOMES								JOURNAL OF SHELLFISH RESEARCH				28	4			827	835		10.2983/035.028.0412			DEC 2009	2009	Tissue-associated bacterial community profiles generated using a nested polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) approach and culture-dependent and culture-independent isolation techniques were compared. Oyster samples were collected from 2 harvest areas along the coast of Maine, in the United States. Profiles from both isolation strategies were evaluated using Sorensen's index of similarity and cluster analysis of gel banding patterns. Culture-independent profiles were further evaluated using the Shannon diversity index. In general, the culture-dependent strategy resulted in a greater number of bands within a profile. Bacterial DGGE profiles were found to be highly similar within an isolation strategy, with a higher degree of unrelatedness between culture-dependent and -independent techniques. Cluster analysis identified bands present in the culture-dependent strategy and not the total DNA technique, and vice versa. Significant differences in community profiles between oyster-associated and seawater were observed, indicating a diverse group of specialist bacterial species inhabit and are able to proliferate within the oyster.		[La Valley, Kenneth J.; Jones, Steve] Univ New Hampshire, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Gomez-Chiarri, Marta; Dealteris, Joseph; Rice, Michael] Univ Rhode Isl, Kingston, RI 02881 USA; [La Valley, Kenneth J.] Univ New Hampshire, 131 Main St, Durham, NH 03824 USA								20							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000273446900012		
J	Maren, Inger E.; Vandvik, Vigdis								Fire and regeneration: the role of seed banks in the dynamics of northern heathlands								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				20	5			871	888		10.1111/j.1654-1103.2009.01091.x			OCT 2009	2009	Questions: How do species composition and abundance of soil seed bank and standing vegetation vary over the course of a post-fire succession in northern heathlands? What is the role of seed banks-do they act as a refuge for early successional species or call they simply be seen as a spillover from the extant local vegetation? Location: Coastal Calluna heathlands, Western Norway. Methods: We analysed vegetation and seed bank along a 24-year post-fire chronosequence. Patterns ill community composition, similarity and abundances were tested using multivariate analyses, Sorensen's index of similarity, vegetation cover and seedling counts. Results: The total diversity of vegetation and seed bank were 60 and 54 vascular plant taxa, respectively, with 39 shared species, resulting in 68% similarity overall. Over 24 years, the heathland community progressed from open newly burned ground via species rich graminoid- and herb-dominated vegetation to mature Calluna heath. Post-fire Succession was not reflected in the seed bank. The 10 most abundant species constituted 98% of the germinated seeds. The most abundant were Calluna vulgaris (49%; 12018 seeds m(-2)) and Erica tetralix (34%; 8414 seeds m(-2)). Calluna showed significantly higher germination the first 2 years following fire. Conclusions: Vegetation species richness, ranging from 23 to 46 species yr(-1), showed a unimodal pattern over the post-fire succession. In contrast, the seed bank species richness, ranging from 21 to 31 species yr(-1) showed no trend. This suggests that the seed bank act as a refuge; providing a constant source of recruits for species that colonise newly burned areas. The traditional management regime has not depleted or destroyed the seed banks and continued management is needed to ensure sustainability of northern heathlands.		[Maren, Inger E.] Univ Bergen, Dept Nat Hist, N-5007 Bergen, Norway; [Maren, Inger E.; Vandvik, Vigdis] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, N-5007 Bergen, Norway; [Maren, Inger E.] Univ Bergen, Dept Nat Hist, Allegaten 41, N-5007 Bergen, Norway								28							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000270031300009		
J	Zhang, Jia-en; Xu, Rongbao; Chen, Xin; Quan, Guoming								Effects of duck activities on a weed community under a transplanted rice-duck farming system in southern China								WEED BIOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				9	3			250	257		10.1111/j.1445-6664.2009.00346.x			SEP 2009	2009	Rice-duck farming is one of the traditional, but current and gradually popularized, ecological farming techniques for paddy rice production in China. In comparison to rice monoculture farming, we investigated a weed community and weed infestation in a transplanted rice-duck farming system and examined the effects of duck activities on the weeds. Three treatments were imposed in the experiment: a rice-duck coculture with duck grazing and disturbance effects, a rice-duck coculture with duck disturbance effects only, and a control (rice monoculture, no duck effects). Rice seedlings were nursed and transplanted in this experiment. The total number of weed species was significantly lower in the treatment with both duck grazing and disturbance and in the treatment with duck disturbance only than in the monoculture rice treatment (control). The Shannon-Wiener Biodiversity Index of the weed species decreased but the Pielou Evenness Index increased in both treatments with ducks compared to the monoculture control. Sorensen's coefficient of similarity of the weed communities was low between the treatments with ducks and the monoculture control, implying that the weed communities diverged. The total density and biomass of the weed community in both the treatments with ducks were significantly lower compared to the monoculture control. However, compared to the rice monoculture control, the weed biomass was reduced by 98% in the treatment with duck grazing and disturbance and by 84% in the treatment with duck disturbance only, implying that only 14% of the weeds were controlled by duck grazing and that 84% of the weed biomass was inhibited by duck activities in the rice field with ducks. The rice grain yield increased in the treatments with ducks compared to the control. The results suggested that duck activities, like grazing weeds and disturbance of the soil and water, had a significant effect on the weed community structure and that weeds could be well controlled without herbicide application under a rice-duck farming system.		[Chen, Xin] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Agroecol Inst, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jia-en; Xu, Rongbao; Quan, Guoming] S China Agr Univ, Inst Trop & Subtrop Ecol, Guangzhou, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Chen, Xin] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Agroecol Inst, 368 Zijinghua Rd, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								29							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000269060500009		
J	Peinado Lorca, Manuel; Macias Rodriguez, Miguel Angel; Aguirre Martinez, Juan Luis; Delgadillo Rodriguez, Jose								Phytogeography of the Pacific Coast of North America								ANALES DEL JARDIN BOTANICO DE MADRID				66	2			151	194		10.3989/ajbm.2212			JUL-DEC 2009	2009	This study was designed to explore floristic variation along the Pacific coast from Cook Inlet, Alaska (61 degrees 30'N), to the southern tip of Baja California, Mexico, at 23 degrees 02'N. Data corresponding to 965 phytosociological releves (including 686 vascular plants) obtained by sampling 279 coastal sites were examined. Using an objective classification system (Average Linkage Clustering) and Sorensen's index, floristic data acquired in fieldwork were related to the biogeographical regions of the study area. According to the worldwide distribution pattern of genera and species, the registered taxa were grouped into phytogeographical elements. These elements, along with the climatic classification of the sites and comparisons among the main coastal vegetation types, gave rise to a phytogeographical classification of the study area in which four regions (North American Boreal, Rocky Mountain, Californian and Xerophytic-Mexican) and eight floristic provinces were distinguished. Each province is characterized by its climate, changes in phytogeographic elements, the presence of endemic genera or species, and by its characteristic vegetation types. Floristic differences among provinces are related to palaeoclimatic and palaeogeographical events. The boreal and temperate provinces show high percentages of broadly distributed elements, whose origins can be found in the Boreotropical or Arctotertiary geoflora that dominated the Northern Hemisphere during the Tertiary. The floristically richest provinces are the three that occupy the Mediterranean zone, since these provinces harbour elements of the Arctotertiary and Madrotertiary geofloras. The flora of tropical Baja California is characterised by a high number of taxa related to Neotropical flora, especially to those showing links with South America.		[Peinado Lorca, Manuel] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Biol Vegetal, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Macias Rodriguez, Miguel Angel] Univ Guadalajara, CUCBA, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico; [Aguirre Martinez, Juan Luis] Univ Alcala de Henares, Catedra Medio Ambiente, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Delgadillo Rodriguez, Jose] Herbario BCMEX, Coronado, CA USA; [Peinado Lorca, Manuel] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Biol Vegetal, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain								5							Plant Sciences	WOS:000272524600001		
J	de Campos, Erica Pereira; Vieira, Milene Faria; da Silva, Alexandre Francisco; Martins, Sebastiao Venancio; da Silva Carmo, Flavia Maria; Moura, Vitor Moreira; de Saboya Ribeiro, Acaua Santos								Seed rain in a seasonal semideciduous forest at Vicosa, Minas Gerais State, Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				23	2			451	458		10.1590/S0102-33062009000200017			APR-JUN 2009	2009	(Seed rain in a seasonal semideciduous forest at Vicosa, Minas Gerais State, Brazil). This study aims to evaluate the floristic composition, density and frequency of seeds in 25 traps in a section of seasonal semideciduous forest, as well as classify taxons as to life form, dispersal syndromes, and succession phase of the tree species, and verify floristic similarities between seed rain species and tree species located in the same plots. The work was carried Out from December/2004 to November/2006. Forty three taxons were recognized and Leguminosae was represented by I I species. The dominant life form was arboreal (63.1%), climbers were represented by 28.9% of the sampled species, herbs by 5.3% and shrubs by 2.6%. Mean seed density in the first year was 113.92 seeds.m-2 and 2603.84 seeds.m(-2) in the second year. These differences showed spatial and seasonal heterogeneity of the seed rain. Floristic similarity using Sorensen's index between seed-rain species and tree species from the studied fragment was 32%, a value considered to be low (<= 50%). This result showed that the adjacent arboreal vegetation composition had little influence oil the seed rain.		[de Campos, Erica Pereira] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-35400000 Ouro Preto, MG, Brazil; [Vieira, Milene Faria; da Silva, Alexandre Francisco] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Biol Vegetal, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Martins, Sebastiao Venancio] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Engn Florestal, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [da Silva Carmo, Flavia Maria] Univ Fed Vicosa, Dept Biol Geral, Setor Ecol, BR-36570000 Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [de Campos, Erica Pereira] Univ Fed Ouro Preto, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-35400000 Ouro Preto, MG, Brazil								23							Plant Sciences	WOS:000268836400017		
J	Pires de Mello Ribeiro, Gabriel Henrique; Felfili, Jeanine Maria								NATURAL REGENERATION IN SEVERAL ENVIRONMENTS OF THE CAPETINGA GALLERY FOREST AT AGUA LIMPA FARM (DF)								CERNE				15	1			1	9					JAN-MAR 2009	2009	The Capetinga gallery forest is located at Agua Limpa Farm, in the Federal District, Brazil. The floristic composition and structure of the natural regeneration at the edges and in the interior of the gallery forest at the watershed of the Capetinga stream was studied to detect floristic and structural patterns related to the forest environments. Thirty (5x5m) plots were placed in each environment to sample saplings, individuals from 1,0m high with diameter at the steam base under 5,0cm. Within these plots, (2x2m) sub-plots were allocated to sample seedlings, individuals lower than 1,0m height. The sampled plots were distant to the stream batik to minimize the humidity effect. Shannon & Wiener diversity index varied from 2,86 (seedlings at the edges) to 3,51 (saplings at the interior) and it was higher in the interior for both categories. Sorensen's similarity index varied from 0.474 for seedlings (comparing edges with interior) to 0.735 (seedlings and saplings at the edges). Czekanowski indices were low and reflected the high differentiation in structure from plot to plot in the same gallery forest. TWINSPAN classification suggested two distinct communities for saplings for both conditions, formed by species accordingly to their requirements for light and water. No differentiation was detected for seedlings between the environments indicating a low response of plants at all early stage to the environmental conditions within the forest. The Capetinga gallery forest suffered disturbances by fire and the small variations in species composition and vegetation structure between environments suggests then most of the natural regeneration is tolerant to light.		[Pires de Mello Ribeiro, Gabriel Henrique; Felfili, Jeanine Maria] Univ Brasilia, Dept Engn Florestal EFL, Lab Manejo Florestal, BR-70919970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Pires de Mello Ribeiro, Gabriel Henrique] Univ Brasilia, Dept Engn Florestal EFL, Lab Manejo Florestal, Campus Darcy Ribeiro,Cx P 04357, BR-70919970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								6							Forestry	WOS:000265484800001		
J	Chen Wennian; Wu Yan; Wu Ning; Luo Peng								Effect of snow-cover duration on plant species diversity of alpine meadows on the eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau								JOURNAL OF MOUNTAIN SCIENCE				5	4			327	339		10.1007/s11629-008-0182-0			DEC 2008	2008	Although snow cover plays an important role in structuring plant diversity in the alpine zone, there are few studies on the relationship between snow cover and species diversity of alpine meadows on the eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. To assess the effect of snow cover on plant species diversity of alpine meadows, we used ten parallel transects of 60 m x 1 m for this study and described the changes in species diversity and composition associated with snow depth. With the division of snow depth into six classes, the highest species richness (S) and species diversity (H') occurred with an intermediate snow depth, i.e., class III and class IV, showing a unimodal curve with the increase in snow depth. The relationship between snow depth and plant diversity (both richness and Shannon index) could be depicted by quadratic equations. There was no evident relationship between diversity (both S and H') and soil water content, which implied that other more important factors influenced species diversity. The patterns of diversity found in our study were largely attributed to freeze-thaw alteration, length of growing season and disturbances of livestock grazing. Furthermore, snow depth affected species composition, as evaluated by the Sorensen's index of similarity. In addition, almost all species limited to one snow depth class were found only in class III and class IV, indicating that intermediate snow depth was suitable for the survival and growth of many alpine species.		[Chen Wennian; Wu Yan; Wu Ning; Luo Peng] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Wu Ning] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, POB 416, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China								25							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000261262200005		
J	Hu, D. M.; Dai, X. H.; Guo, D. Y.; Hyde, K. D.; Zhang, K. Q.								The diversity of coprophilous fungi from Dahuadian and Zhongdian grasslands, Yunnan, China								CRYPTOGAMIE MYCOLOGIE				29	4			355	364					DEC 2008	2008	The coprophilous fungi on cattle dung (Bos taurus) were investigated at Dahuadian and Zhongdian grasslands, in Yunnan Province, China. Fifty dung samples from Dahuadian and 50 from Zhongdian were collected and examined for fungi. A total of 61 species were recorded in this study (47 species from Dahuadian and 27 from Zhongdian) including 15 new records for mainland China. Species occurrence, species frequency, species richness, Shannon-Weiner index (H'), species evenness (E) and Sorensen's index of similarity (S') from the two grasslands were calculated. The fungal diversity from Dahuadian (altitude: 2940 meters) was higher than that from Zhongdian (altitude: 3300 meters). The proportion of ascomycetes (70%) to basidiomycetes (19%) from Zhongdian was much larger than the proportion of ascomycetes (54%) to basidiomycetes (15%) from Dahuadian. The reason for differences in fungal communities are discussed.		[Hyde, K. D.] Chinese Acad Forestry, Res Inst Resource Insects, Int Fungal Res & Dev Ctr, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China; [Hu, D. M.; Dai, X. H.; Guo, D. Y.] Gannan Normal Univ, Sch Chem & Life Sci, Ganzhou 341000, Peoples R China; [Hyde, K. D.] Mae Fah Luang Univ, Sch Sci, Chiang Rai, Thailand; [Zhang, K. Q.] Yunnan Univ, Lab Conservat & Utilizat Bioresources, Kunming, Yunnan Province, Peoples R China; [Hyde, K. D.] Chinese Acad Forestry, Res Inst Resource Insects, Int Fungal Res & Dev Ctr, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China								1							Mycology	WOS:000262975500005		
J	Oliveira Marques, Marcos Fabio; Pascholati Gusmao, Luis Fernando; Maia, Leonor Costa								Species richness of conidial fungi in two areas of Atlantic Forest at Morro da Pioneira, Serra da Jiboia, Bahia State, Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				22	4			954	961		10.1590/S0102-33062008000400006			OCT-DEC 2008	2008	(Species richness of conidial fungi in two areas of Atlantic Forest at Morro da Pioneira, Serra da Jiboia, Bahia State, Brazil). The fragment of Atlantic Forest at Serra da Jiboia, municipality of Santa Terezinha, Bahia state, is a priority area for conservation. Five expeditions were undertaken every two months, from October/2005 to June/2006, in order to investigate the fungi that decompose leaf litter in this ecosystem. Thirty samples of plant debris (leaves, petioles, twigs and bark) were collected in three parcels of 10 m(2), 10 m from each other, in two areas with different vegetation and humidity. Samples were washed in tap water and incubated in moist chambers for 30 days; during this period fungal structures on substrates were studied and 106 species of conidial fungi were identified. In spite of the similar number of species, there was low similarity (25%) between the communities of conidial fungi of the two areas according to Sorensen's Index. These data increase our knowledge regarding the distribution and diversity of conidial fungi that colonize plant debris in the Atlantic Forest and confirm species richness in the areas studied.		[Oliveira Marques, Marcos Fabio] Univ Estado Bahia, Dept Educ, Microbiol Lab, BR-48970000 Senhor Do Bonfim, BA, Brazil; [Pascholati Gusmao, Luis Fernando] Univ Estadual Feira de Santana, Dept Ciencias Biol, Microbiol Lab, BR-44031460 Feira De Santana, BA, Brazil; [Maia, Leonor Costa] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Ctr Ciencias Biol, Dept Micol, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Oliveira Marques, Marcos Fabio] Univ Estado Bahia, Dept Educ, Microbiol Lab, Campus 7,BR 407,Km 127 Rod Lomanto Jr, BR-48970000 Senhor Do Bonfim, BA, Brazil								25							Plant Sciences	WOS:000262779500005		
J	Gruezo, William Sm.								Flora and vegetation of Mankayan, Benguet Province, Philippines II.: Tailings Dams 3, 4 and 5								ASIA LIFE SCIENCES				17	2			349	389					JUL-DEC 2008	2008	The flora of the tailings dam area (Tailings Dams 3,4 & 5) of the Lepanto Consolidated Mining Company (Mankayan, Benguet Province, Philippines) is composed of 213 vascular plant species belonging to 175 genera and 74 families, with a composite Shannon-Weiner diversity index of H'= 4.52. Two vegetation formations, namely: pine forest and brushland types are present within the boundary of the tailings dam area, with the former type being the most dominant even beyond the perimeter of the tailings dam area. Of the three tailings dams, Tailings Dam 4 had the highest species richness, S = 131 species, followed by Tailings Dam 5, with S = 118 and Tailings Dam 3, with only 74 species. However, in terms of species diversity level, Tailings Dam 5 had the highest H'value (4.16), followed by Tailings Dam 4, H'= 4.07 and Tailings Dam 3, with H'= 3.88. In terms of species composition, Tailings Dams 3 and 4 had a similarity index, S.I. (using Sorensen's formula) value of 22.44, Tailings Dams 4 and 5, with S.I. = 23.30, Tailings Dams 3 and 5, with S.I. = 6.25 and Tailings Dams 3, 4 and 5, with S.I. = 16.10. Tailings Dam 5 had the highest number of species (i.e. 57) restricted to within its boundary, closely followed by Tailings Dam 4 (53 species) and Tailings Dam 3 with only 19 species. In terms of plant conservation status, there are 22 endemic, 183 indigenous and 8 introduced species found within the boundary of the tailings dam area. The relatively high species diversity and low similarity indices present in the tailings dam area coupled with an inherent substantial plant endemicity percentage (10.8%) suggest that a more comprehensive in situ conservation strategy and rehabilitation plan should be developed and implemented altogether in order to provide maximum protection to the still remarkably high plant diversity in this portion of the mining area.		[Gruezo, William Sm.] UPLB, Coll Arts & Sci, Inst Biol Sci, Div Plant Biol, College Los Banos 4031, Laguna, Philippines; [Gruezo, William Sm.] UPLB, Museum Nat Hist, Sch Environm Sci & Management & Curator, College Los Banos 4031, Laguna, Philippines; [Gruezo, William Sm.] UPLB, Coll Arts & Sci, Inst Biol Sci, Div Plant Biol, College Los Banos 4031, Laguna, Philippines								1							Biology	WOS:000256898200012		
J	Bzdon, Grzegorz								Gravel pits as habitat islands: floristic diversity and vegetation analysis								POLISH JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				56	2			239	250					2008	2008	Open-cut excavations formed as a result of exploitation of mineral deposits are the least studied ecological sites. Habitat heterogenity is reflected by remarkable floristic and phytocoenotic diversity. Being isolated by the surrounding vegetation of contrasting types - they can be considered as "habitat islands". Twenty excavations (area from 100 m(2) to 2 ha) were selected - 10 located in cropland, 10 - in coniferous forest. The intensiveness of gravel pit exploitation was differentiated. Some of them were exploited, other ones were abandoned 10-30 years ago. The floristic records were taken during summer period in each pit and in near-by vegetation at the distance not larger than 200 m. As much as 280 species of vascular plants were found in 10 selected gravel pits surrounded by coniferous forest communities, which contained only 111 taxa. The flora of mid-field excavations was definitely richer that the flora of their surroundings. Sorensen's similarity index (S-0) for mid-forest gravel pits and their surroundings ranged between 27% and 40% while that for mid-field gravel pits and their neighbourhood - from 15% to over 27%. The U Mann-Whitney test demonstrated that the number of species noted in selected gravel pits significantly differed from that in the surrounding. It was true for both (mid-forest Z = 3.70; P = 0.00021) and mid-field gravel pits (Z = 3.78; P = 0.00016). Native species were dominating in the flora of both mid-field and mid-forest excavations (77% and 82 % respectively). Hemicryptophytes were found to dominate (46%) over other groups of life forms in both types of gravel pits. A high contribution of terophytes - over 19% in mid-forest excavations and over 25% in mid-field ones is noteworthy. The results showed that gravel pits could play a role of enclaves for natural and semi-natural vegetation thus acting as local centres of floristic diversity in human modified monotonous agricultural or monospecies pine forest landscape.		Univ Podlasie, Dept Bot, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland; [Bzdon, Grzegorz] Univ Podlasie, Dept Bot, Prusa 12, PL-08110 Siedlce, Poland								12							Ecology	WOS:000256959500005		
J	Kujawa, Anna; Kujawa, Krzysztof								Effect of young midfield shelterbelts development on species richness of macrofungi communities and their functional structure								POLISH JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				56	1			45	56					2008	2008	The aim of the study was to recognize features characterizing development of macrofungi communities occurring in afforestations planted in crop fields and to evaluate the role of these habitats in conservation of macrofungi and preserve high species richness. The study was carried out in 1998-2006 and covered four shelterbelts (planted in 1993-1996) located in the area of the Dezydery Chlapowski Landscape Park (western part of Poland). The shelterbelts were colonized by macrofungi just after planting. During first years of their growth a total of 174 species were recorded. Species composition changed significantly between initial (1998-2000) and final (2004-2006) period of study. Similarity of macrofungi communities (expressed as the Sorensen's index) between these two periods in studied shelterbelts ranged between 37 and 46%. In spite of high similarity in tree species composition between studied afforestations (69-80%), the communities of macrofungi differed strongly between these sampling plots (Sorensen's index was equal to about 40%). Pattern of changes in percentage share of functional groups, i.e. parasitic, mycorrhizal and saprotrophs (humicolous, lignicolous, litter-inhibiting and muscicolous ones) in individual afforestations was different but the diversity of the communities measured with the Shannon-Weaver H' index on the basis of share of functional groups tended to increase with ageing of afforestations. On average, the share of fungi growing on soil (ectomycorrhizal and humicolous saprotrophic species) was highest among all distinguished groups. Species composition of particular functional group was changing during the study period. A species representing new groups (lignicolous saprotrophs and parasites) were appearing in some shelterbelts in successive years. There were recorded some species rare in Poland, eg. Psilocybe (Stropharia) melanosperma (Bull. ex Pers.: Fr.) Noordel., Clavariadelphus fistulosus (Holmsk.: Fr.) Corner, Thelephora caryophyllea (Schaeff.): Fr., Agrocybe arvalis (Fr.) Singer, Galerina clavata (Velen.) Kuhner, Lachnella alboviolascens (Alb. & Schwein.: Fr.) Fr., Macrocystidia cucumis f. minor Joss, Mycena amicta (Fr.) Quel., Psilocybe (Stropharia) inuncta (Fr.: Fr.) Noordel., Trichophaea gregaria (Rehm) Boud. and Typhula filata (Pers.) Herter. Occurrence of rare and threatened species in young shelterbelts; indicates that such afforestations, planted in crop fields but not treated by agricultural practices, contribute to the protection of species richness of macrofungi associated with tree communities and they are important substitute habitats for many species.		[Kujawa, Anna; Kujawa, Krzysztof] Polish Acad Sci, Res Ctr Agr & Forest Environm, PL-64000 Koscian, Poland; [Kujawa, Anna] Polish Acad Sci, Res Ctr Agr & Forest Environm, Field Stn,Szkolna 4, PL-64000 Koscian, Poland								6							Ecology	WOS:000254107400004		
J	Koonkhunthod, Narong; Sakurai, Katsutoshi; Tanaka, Sota								Composition and diversity of woody regeneration in a 37-year-old teak (<i>Tectona grandis</i> L.) plantation in Northern Thailand								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				247	1-3			246	254		10.1016/j.foreco.2007.04.053			AUG 15 2007	2007	Patterns of woody regeneration in terms of species composition and diversity were studied in a 37-year-old teak plantation established on degraded mixed deciduous forest (MDF) at Mae Yuak Plantation Station, Ngao District, Lampang Province, Northern Thailand. In order to assess the role of plantations in regeneration of woody tree species within the plantation, the understorey floristic structures and composition were evaluated fifteen 20 m x 20 m plots at three sites differing in topographic position, stand structure and distance from natural forest. The average density and species richness of woody regeneration in the plantation was 556.7 stem ha(-1) and 9.6 species plot 1, respectively. The Shannon-Wiener index was 2.47-2.68, and Sorensen's index of similarity between plantation and the adjacent MDF was 0.38-0.55. A total of 334 woody regeneration individuals were found in 0.6 ha of teak plantation, representing 37 species, with Legummosae the most common family. Pterocarpus macrocarpus Kurz (Leguminosae) showed the highest density of 73.3 stem ha(-1). The eight most dominant species were P macrocarpus, Dalbergia oliveri Gamble, Croton roxburghii N.P. Balakr, Xylia xylocarpa (Roxb.) Tuab., D. cultrate Graham ex Benth., Wrightia arborea (Dennst.) Mabb., Schleichera oleosa (Lour.) Oken and Morinda tomentosa Heyne ex Roth. The proximity to the natural forest, seed dispersal characteristics and site qualities influenced woody regeneration. These results show teak plantations could be effective tools in rehabilitating degraded MDF in Northern Thailand. (c) 2007 Published by Elsevier B.V.		Ehime Univ, United Grad Sch Agr Sci, Matsuyama, Ehime 7908566, Japan; Kochi Univ, Fac Agr, Kochi 7838502, Japan; Kochi Univ, Grad Sch Kuroshio Sci, Kochi 7838502, Japan; [Koonkhunthod, Narong] Ehime Univ, United Grad Sch Agr Sci, Matsuyama, Ehime 7908566, Japan								23							Forestry	WOS:000248787400026		
J	Losvik, Mary H.								Regional species pools of hay meadows: A case study								APPLIED VEGETATION SCIENCE				10	2			239	248		10.1658/1402-2001(2007)10[239:RSPOHM]2.0.CO;2			AUG 2007	2007	Questions: Is it possible to render the species pool concept operational for cultural landscape management and restoration? Location: Hordaland and Sogn & Fjordane counties, western Norway. Methods: An initial regional species list, based on information on the distribution of species and habitats in the Norwegian flora. was filtered using information on target communities and species lists from 95 sites in the region. Owing to the importance of both mowing and grazing Ellenberg indicator values were not used in the identification process. Results: The final regional species pool consisted of 227 species, of which 194 were extracted from the flora, while 33 agricultural landscape species were added from the actual pool or from a list of species in additional hay meadows. Some of the 33 species were regular inhabitants of hay meadows, others were rare in the region. The regional species pool list includes information on each species on demands when hydrology, nutrients and base saturation in the soil is concerned, and whether or not they are characteristic for either of the boreal or boreo-nemoral vegetation zones. Conclusions: Specialist knowledge was an advantage when adding cultural landscape species other than meadow species of the flora; 77 species were documented only by the flora, interesting from the point of view of restoration as this part of the pool would not have been found by just adding species lists. The diversity of the now isolated hay meadow sites in the region may be kept up by replacing the lost natural invasion by an artificial one, using local seed mixtures and transplants.		Univ Bergen, Bergen Museum, NO-5007 Bergen, Norway; [Losvik, Mary H.] Univ Bergen, Bergen Museum, Allegt 41, NO-5007 Bergen, Norway								4							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000247766700010		
J	Medeiros, Mariana Martins; Felfili, Jeanine Maria; Libano, Andrea Marilza								Floristic-structural comparison of the regeneration and adult layers in cerrado <i>sensu</i> <i>stricto</i> in Central Brazil								CERNE				13	3			291	298					JUL-SEP 2007	2007	Floristic composition and phytossociology of the natural regeneration layer, in permanent plots of the cerrado sensu stricto in Fazenda Agua Limpa, FAL-DF were analyzed to verify the representativity of the current regeneration in relation to the adult community. All individuals with height less than I in in the subplots of 5 x 5 in, placed in the 21 permanent plots of 20 x 50 in were measured. The floristic composition for the regeneration layer included a total of 27 families and 49 species and Shannon diversity of 3,21. Sorensen's index showed a high floristic similarity between the regeneration layer of 2006 and the adult layer in the eight monitored periods. It was founded differences between the species with highest values of importance (VI) in natural regeneration and adult layer of the community. The highest density of individuals in the regeneration than in the mature phase and the high similarity between the two layers at all occasions suggest a dynamic equilibrium and the possibility of maintenance of the current floristic community with possible changes in the hierarchical in the main species.		[Medeiros, Mariana Martins] Cursando Especializacao Ctr Desenvolvimento Suste, BR-70070914 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Felfili, Jeanine Maria] Univ Brasilia, UNB, Dept Engn Florestal, Lab Manejo Florestal, BR-70919970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Libano, Andrea Marilza] Ctr Univ Brasilia UniCEUB, Fac Saude, BR-70790075 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Medeiros, Mariana Martins] Cursando Especializacao Ctr Desenvolvimento Suste, Quadra 5,Bloco H, BR-70070914 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								7							Forestry	WOS:000254707100007		
J	Davidar, Priya; Rajagopal, B.; Mohandass, D.; Puyravaud, Jean-Philippe; Condit, Richard; Wright, S. J.; Leigh, E. G., Jr.								The effect of climatic gradients, topographic variation and species traits on the beta diversity of rain forest trees								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				16	4			510	518		10.1111/j.1466-8238.2007.00307.x			JUL 2007	2007	Aim We assessed the rates of turnover of tree species with distance (beta diversity) in wet forests of the Western Ghats (WG) complex of India to see whether climate, topographic variation or species traits influence beta diversity. Location The Western Ghats is a chain of mountains about 1600 km in length, running parallel to the western coast of the Indian Peninsula from above 8 degrees N to almost 21 degrees N latitude. Methods We used data from 60 small plot inventories concentrated in three regions: the southernmost part of the Western Ghats (SWG) (8 degrees 24' to 9 degrees 37' N), the Nilgiri Hills (11 degrees 12' to 11 degrees 14' N), and the central Western Ghats (CWG) (12 degrees 32' to 14 degrees 51' N). We used Sorensen's index (SI) to estimate the similarity in species composition between two plots and regressed SI against the logarithm of the distance between plots to assess beta diversity. A bootstrapping procedure provided confidence intervals for regression coefficients. To test for the effects of climate, we regressed seasonality differences between plots against SI for low-elevation (< 800 m) plots along the north-south axis, and all plots in the SWG. We assessed the impact of the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Results Among all three regions, beta diversity was highest along the latitudinal axis, and along the rainfall gradient in the Kogar region. Differences in seasonality between sites were strongly related to beta diversity along the north-south seasonality gradient and within the SWG. Within the three regions, beta diversity was highest in the region with the strongest rainfall gradient and lowest for the topographically heterogeneous SWG. Beta diversity did not differ between forest strata and dispersal modes. Main conclusions We conclude that climate, particularly seasonality, is probably the primary driver of beta diversity among rain forest trees of the Western Ghats complex.		Pondicherry Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Pondicherry 605014, India; ITPower India Pvt Ltd, Pondicherry 605001, India; Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa 03092, Panama; [Davidar, Priya] Pondicherry Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Pondicherry 605014, India								67							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000247127900010		
J	Ramirez-Albores, Jorge E.								Bird diversity and conservation of Alto Balsas (Southwestern Puebla), Mexico								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				55	1			287	299					MAR 2007	2007	Knowledge of the composition of the bird community in Alto Balsas (southwestern Puebla, Central Mexico) is needed for management programs aiming at protection and conservation of bird species and their habitats I studied sites with tropical deciduous forest. Data were obtained during 1666 hours of field work in 238 days from March 1998 to September 2000. Six permanent transect (3.5 km long and 100 m wide; 30 to 40 ha in each transect) were used to determine species richness in the study sites. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index was calculated for each site and Sorensen's index was used to assess similarity between sites. One-way analysis of variance was used to test for differences between sites in species richness and diversity values. A total of 128 species were recorded, Tepexco (n = 75, H' = 3.76) and Puente Marquez (n = 6 1, H' = 3.62) were the sites that showed the greatest specific richness and diversity. However, species richness and diversity seasonally patterns were similar among sites (ANOVA p > 0.05), with highest diversity during the rainy season. Most species were resident; 42 were migrants. The avifauna was represented by 30 species associated with tropical deciduous forest and 12 from open habitats or heavily altered habitats. Insectivores were the best represented trophic category, followed by carnivores and omnivores.		Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Museo Zool, Fac Estudios Super Zaragoza, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Ramirez-Albores, Jorge E.] Manuel Bonilla 357,Manzana 44,Col Santa Martha Ac, Mexico City 09510, DF, Mexico								7							Biology	WOS:000248031700031		
J	Tani, Akihiro; Ito, Eriko; Kanzaki, Mamoru; Ohta, Seiichi; Khorn, Saret; Pith, Phearak; Tith, Bora; Pol, Sopheavuth; Lim, Sopheap								Principal forest types of three regions of Cambodia: Kampong Thom, Kratie, and Mondolkiri								FOREST ENVIRONMENTS IN THE MEKONG RIVER BASIN								201	+		10.1007/978-4-431-46503-4_18			2007	2007	We enumerated all trees 10cm or more in DBH with respect to DBH, height, and species identity in 29 circular plots of 20-m radius from Kampong Thom, Kratie, and Mondolkiri Provinces, Cambodia. The composition data were analyzed using cluster analysis with group-averaging protocol, and Sorensen's similarity index based on basal area data and the resulting clusters were also described with respect to height structure and indicator species. We found four main clusters corresponding to traditional qualitative forest types known as evergreen forest, deciduous forest, hill evergreen forest, and swamp forest. The evergreen cluster was further divided into two stand types of dry evergreen forest and two stand types of secondary evergreen forest. The deciduous forest cluster was divided into three stand types of deciduous dipterocarp forest and a mixed deciduous forest. We describe the correspondence between the forest stand types of our study and the many regional names previously used for the different forest types in varying classification systems. Some of the stand types, for example, an evergreen forest overtopped by deciduous dipterocarp (Dipterocarpus intricatus) or by a pine (Pinus merksii), and a D. obtusifolius stand on seasonally waterlogged habitat, seemed to be unique in Cambodia. The application of this method and the needs of regional forest mapping are discussed.		[Tani, Akihiro] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Agr, Kyoto, Japan; [Tani, Akihiro] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Agr, Kyoto, Japan				International Conference on Forest Environment in Continental River Basins, with a Focus on the Mekong River	DEC 05-07, 2005	Int Union Forest Res Org; FFPRI	Phnom Penh, CAMBODIA	27							Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000250405700018		
J	Diekmann, Martin; Kuehne, Anke; Isermann, Maike								Random its non-random sampling:: Effects on patterns of species abundance, species richness and vegetation-environment relationships								FOLIA GEOBOTANICA				42	2			179	190		10.1007/BF02893884			2007	2007	From a strictly statistical perspective, most of the commonly used statistical tests cannot be performed on vegetation data obtained using a non-random sampling design. Despite this, non-randomly sampled plots such as phytosociological releves still make sense: because they may focus on objectives not appropriately addressed by random sampling, such as the study of rare plant communities or species; and because random sampling is often more time-demanding and expensive. Considering the huge body of phytosociological data available, an interesting question arises: if we compare randomly and non-randomly sampled data sets, to what extent do the results of our analyses differ with respect to various species and vegetation parameters? We present an attempt to tackle this question by comparing two data sets collected in a 25 km(2) area close to the city of Bremen, northwestern Germany: the first data set consisted of 30 subjectively (non-randomly) placed, homogeneous plots across different plant communities, each of which was laid out in a nested design including 9 sizes from 0.5 m(2) to 1,000 m(2). The second data set consisted of 30 (again nested) plots randomly selected and located with a GPS device; plots were rejected only if they for some reason were inaccessible. The data collection was the same for both data sets: presence-absence of all vascular plants was recorded for the different plot sizes, and soil samples were collected for the determination of the values of some important environmental variables. For the comparison of the two data sets, we used either the complete data sets or sub-sets of those plots located in woodlands. The main results included the following: (1) Species abundance patterns: Random sampling resulted in a larger number of common and a smaller number of rare species than non-random sampling. (2) Species richness at different spatial scales: For the small plot sizes, the number of species in the non-randomly placed plots was higher than in the randomly placed plots, while the differences were less pronounced at larger spatial scales. As a consequence, also the parameters of species-area curves differed between the data sets, especially in the sub-set including woodland plots. (3) Vegetation differentiation: In random sampling, there was considerable redundancy, i.e., there were several plots with high floristic similarity. (4) Vegetation-environment relationships: The ordination scores of the non-randomly placed plots showed a larger number of significant correlations to soil parameters than the scores of randomly placed plots. The results suggest that conclusions drawn from the analysis of non-randomly placed plots such as phytosociological releves may be biased, especially regarding estimates of species abundance and species richness patterns.		Univ Bremen, Inst Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, D-28359 Bremen, Germany; [Diekmann, Martin] Univ Bremen, Inst Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Leobener Str, D-28359 Bremen, Germany								40							Plant Sciences	WOS:000247411200008		
J	Solomon, T. B.; Snyman, H. A.; Smit, G. N.								Soil seed bank characteristics in relation to land use systems and distance from water in a semi-arid rangeland of southern Ethiopia								SOUTH AFRICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY				72	2			263	271		10.1016/j.sajb.2005.09.003			MAY 2006	2006	The size and species composition of the soil seed bank of southern Ethiopia rangelands were examined under three land use systems (communal land, a government ranch and traditional grazing reserves) and along a distance gradient (near, middle and far) from water sources. Soil seed bank sampling was carded out at the end of the growing season from 0.25 m(-2) quadrates 30 mm deep. The aboveground species composition was also compared. Of the total plant species identified in the soil seed bank in the greenhouse, 25% were grasses and 75% non-grasses. The near, middle and far sites from water was dominated by Leucas glabrata, Verbesina encelioides and Lintona nutans, respectively. Lepthotrium senegalensis made up 67% of the total composition of the soil seed bank in the traditional grazing reserve. Graminoid seedling density at the traditional grazing reserve (798.8 seedlings m(-2)) was higher (P < 0.01) than that of the ranch and communal sites, but did not vary significantly along the distance gradient from water (average 239.2 seedlings m(-2)). Non-graminoid seedling density did not vary much (P > 0.05) between the land use systems (average 128.9 seedlings m(-2)) and along the distance gradients from water (average 183.7 seedlings m(-2)). Sorensen's similarity index of the aboveground vegetation and the associated seed bank was low at all the sites. Difference in grazing pressure between the land use systems was one of the most likely causes of variations in the soil seed bank density and botanical composition of graminoids. The non-significant differences in the graminoid seed bank density along the distance gradients from water were due to similar population of grasses and may not explain the levels of grazing impact and disturbance. Regeneration from the soil seed bank may have a profound effect in restoring the composition of the grass layer in the degraded Borana rangelands if sustainable management practices are applied and sufficient rest periods followed. By translocating seed rich topsoil from the grazing reserves to degraded grazing areas, the soil seed bank can be used to develop valuable grass species at small community level. (c) 2005 SAAB. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ Free State, Dept Anim Wildlife & Grassland Sci, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa; [Snyman, H. A.] Univ Free State, Dept Anim Wildlife & Grassland Sci, POB 339, ZA-9300 Bloemfontein, South Africa								35							Plant Sciences	WOS:000240298800012		
J	Faggi, Ana M.; Krellenberg, Kerstin; Castro, Roberto; Arriaga, Mirta; Endlicher, Wilfried								Biodiversity in the Argentinean Rolling Pampa ecoregion: Changes caused by agriculture and urbanisation								ERDKUNDE				60	2			127	138					APR-JUN 2006	2006	The metropolitan area of Buenos Aires is located in the Rolling Pampa, one of the most productive ecoregions of the world (44,000 km(2), 33 degrees S-39 degrees S). This region has undergone deep transformations caused by agricultural, residential, industrial and commercial land-uses. The purpose of this paper is to compare to what extent plant and avian richness is influenced by urban and agricultural uses. To capture the land-use effects a comparison between different sectors was made. Green space, and farmland, located in areas of contrasting land-use, extending from the La Plata's river shore to similarity and rural areas, were sampled. Vascular plant richness, floristic composition and bird presence were considered. To compare the different sites, biodiversity indexes and Sorensen's coefficient of similarity were calculated and the percentage of forest, grassland, shrubland, wetland and rivers/streams was estimated. All collected data were correlated using Principal Components Analysis (PCA). In general, the decrease of native plants and bird richness towards the city centre is consistent with the studies of other cities. The results of the present study confirm that the actual cultivation practices are extremely more dangerous for conservation of native land than urban sprawl.		Flores Univ, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; Humboldt Univ, Inst Geog, D-10099 Berlin, Germany; Museo Ciencias Nat, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Faggi, Ana M.] Flores Univ, Nazca 274,C1406AJO, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								11							Geography; Geography, Physical	WOS:000245077500004		
J	Ferguson, MA; Smales, LR								Helminth assemblages of the turtle <i>Emydura macquarii</i> (Pleurodira: Chelidae) Queensland, Australia								JOURNAL OF PARASITOLOGY				92	1			186	188		10.1645/GE-552R.1			FEB 2006	2006	The helminth fauna of 76 Emydura macquarii from 3 river systems in central and northern Queensland was examined. Eleven species were found, including 2 nematodes, 6 trematodes, 1 aspidogastrean, 1 cestode, and 1 rnonogenean. Analysis of helminth diversity showed that the Fitzroy and Ross River turtles had communities of comparable diversity, but the helminth communities in Proserpine River turtles were Much less diverse. The helminth communities in all localities were dominated by trematodes. Polystomoides australiensis was the most prevalent, being found in 60% of the Ross River turtles, 57% of the Fitzroy River turtles, and 46% of the Proserpine River turtles. Notopronocephalus peekayi was the most abundant species, with mean abundances of 5.9 in the Ross River turtles and 9.8 in the Fitzroy River turtles. Species richness, Simpson's Reciprocal Index, was highest, 4.68, for the Ross River helminth community. Sorensen's Qualitative Index showed 95% similarity between the Ross River and Fitzroy River communities, although Sorensen's Quantitative Index indicated only 35% similarity between the 2 sites. Host feeding patterns are likely the most important factor affecting species richness of the helminth infracommunities, as the majority of helminth species are transmitted by food-web interactions involving intermediate hosts.		Univ Cent Queensland, Sch Biol & Environm Sci, Rockhampton, Qld 4702, Australia; [Smales, LR] Univ Cent Queensland, Sch Biol & Environm Sci, Rockhampton, Qld 4702, Australia								7							Parasitology	WOS:000236565900031		
J	Hoagstrom, Christopher W.; Berry, Charles R., Jr.								Island biogeography of native fish faunas among great plains drainage basins: Basin scale features influence composition								American Fisheries Society Symposium				48				221	+					2006	2006	We reviewed native fish zoogeography in 22 major tributary basins of the Missouri River basin in the Great Plains geomorphic province and used island biogeographical approaches to study the influence of basin area and isolation on faunal composition. Basin area was correlated with elevation range and basin isolation was negatively correlated with annual freeze-free days. Ninety-six species were native to the tributary basins. Ninety-one were of southern (Gulf of Mexico drainage) origin. Fifty were found in four or fewer tributary basins and, except for three mountain species, were only found from the Cheyenne basin downstream. Twenty-five widespread species were either present among tributary basins during glaciation or colonized the region during recession of the continental glaciers. Sixty-six more restricted species presumably colonized more recently. Five species colonized from Pacific Ocean drainages via interdrainage connections in the Rocky Mountains. The hypothesis that variation between some closely related Great Plains fishes reflects the former presence of a prehistoric "Ancient Plains Drainage" is no longer tenable given recent geological findings, but a series of stream captures between the ancient Arkansas and Kansas basins could account for such variation. All analyses indicated that native fish faunal composition among tributary basins was heavily influenced by factors related to basin area and isolation. A presence-absence matrix of fishes by tributary basin had very high nestedness, whether ordered by basin area or basin isolation. Cluster analysis of Wilcoxon two-sample tests of individual species distributions revealed seven species groups with distinct distribution patterns. The three largest groups were most prevalent in less isolated (southern) tributary basins. A nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis (NMDS) based on Sorensen's index of similarity indicated that two axes (both correlated with tributary basin isolation, one correlated with tributary basin area) accounted for 95% of variance between distance in the ordination space and distance in the original n-dimensional space. A cluster analysis of NMDS scores identified five tributary basin groups. The five southernmost basins (Kansas to White) composed one group, and the eight basins to the north (Bad to Little Missouri) composed another. The nine northernmost basins were split into three groups, one including small basins isolated from the Rocky Mountains, another including large basins with Rocky Mountain headwaters, and the last including two basins that were mostly within the Rocky Mountains. The influence of tributary basin area on faunal composition was presumably due to increased chance of colonization, higher habitat stability, and higher habitat diversity in larger tributary basins. The influence of tributary basin isolation was presumably due to higher colonization rates and more equitable climate in southern tributary basins. Fish faunas of the Missouri River basin in the Great Plains have experienced cyclical geomorphic and climatic instability for roughly 2.8 million years and were assembled like island faunas by variable colonization and extinction rates mediated by tributary basin area and isolation. This contrasts with the highly diverse freshwater fish faunas of the Central Highlands that have differentiated through speciation within regions that have been relatively stable geornorphically and climatically for more than 38 million years.		[Hoagstrom, Christopher W.] South Dakota State Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Berry, Charles R., Jr.] South Dakota State Univ, US Geol Survey, South Dakota Cooperat Fish & Widlife Res Unit, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Hoagstrom, Christopher W.] South Dakota State Univ, Dept Wildlife & Fisheries Sci, Brookings, SD 57007 USA				Symposium on Influences of Landscape on Stream Habitat and Biological Communities	AUG 25-26, 2004		Madison, WI	26							Fisheries; Limnology	WOS:000240912900011		
J	Ritter, NP; Crow, GE								A floristic and biogeographical analysis of the wetlands of the Bolivian cloud forest								RHODORA				107	929			1	33		10.3119/00-10.1			WIN 2005	2005	A study of six wetlands of the Bolivian Cloud Forest was undertaken from 1994 to 1997. Seventy-five species, in 29 families and 49 genera, were identified as being associated with wetland habitats in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. The flora was composed of a mixture of fairly common, ruderal species and of species typical of high Andean (alpine/Puna) aquatic systems. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of cloud forest habitats, these wetlands were found to contain few endemic or rare species. At the site level, it appeared that the wetlands could be characterized as species-poor relative to wetlands in most other Bolivian regions; however, this determination was confounded by a disproportionate number of ponds (a characteristically species-poor wetland type) among the cloud forest study sites. Floristic similarities (Sorensen's Index) between cloud forest study sites were relatively low; nevertheless, these systems were closely grouped in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis of 46 wetlands from throughout Bolivia. Regional-scale diversity comparisons were confounded by the inability to confidently estimate the area of inundated habitat in the Bolivian Cloud Forest. However, it appeared that diversity in the cloud forest wetlands was substantially lower than that of terrestrial cloud forest habitats. Likewise, it appeared that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was species-poor relative to wetland floras of other Bolivian regions. Floristic similarities were low between the Bolivian Cloud Forest and other regions within Bolivia and in various South and Central American montane regions. An ordination of the regional data suggested that the Bolivian Cloud Forest wetland flora was most closely associated with the other two Bolivian montane regions included in this analysis.		Calif State Univ Stanislaus, Endangered Species Recovery Program, Fresno, CA 93727 USA; Univ New Hampshire, Dept Plant Biol, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Ritter, NP] Calif State Univ Stanislaus, Endangered Species Recovery Program, 1900 N Gateway Ave, Fresno, CA 93727 USA								3							Plant Sciences	WOS:000229136600001		
J	Jahr, KJ; Crow, GE								Floristic reevaluation of a created wetland in Portsmouth, New Hampshire								RHODORA				107	929			87	102		10.3119/04-12.1			WIN 2005	2005	Long-term reassessment of floristic diversity in created wetlands is needed to gain an understanding of how wetlands created for mitigation mature floristically. A thorough floristic survey of a 17-year old created wetland in southeastern New Hampshire was conducted to compare current data to a 1992 floristic study of the site. The flora in 2002 included 110 species, whereas the total number of species recorded in 1992 was 101. Not only had diversity increased, but the flora had changed in a 10-year span; the floristic lists of the two years showed 79 shared species. Sorensen's Index of Similarity revealed a floristic similarity of 75%. Carex atherodes, new to the site in 2002, represents a new state record for New Hampshire. As there is a great need for long-term evaluation of mitigation wetlands, these data contribute toward a better understanding of the maturation of created wetlands, and can be used to make more meaningful floristic comparisons with natural wetlands and evaluate the long term success of wetland mitigation projects.		Univ New Hampshire, Dept Plant Biol, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Crow, GE] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Plant Biol, Durham, NH 03824 USA								3							Plant Sciences	WOS:000229136600005		
J	Van de Vijver, B; Gremmen, NJM; Beyens, L								The genus <i>Stauroneis</i> (Bacillariophyceae) in the Antarctic region								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				32	10			1791	1798		10.1111/j.1365-2699.2005.01325.x			OCT 2005	2005	Aim To provide a detailed biogeography of the diatom genus Stauroneis in the Antarctic and sub-Antarctic regions and to establish the biogeographical relationships between the different constituent locations to test the application of a precise and refined taxonomy in generating accurate polar biogeographies. Location The Antarctic and sub-Antarctic region comprising the islands South Georgia, Crozet, Kerguelen, Marion, Heard and the Antarctic Peninsula. Methods Diatom samples from different habitats in a large part of the sub-Antarctic and Antarctic region were investigated for their Stauroneis content. Presence/absence data were investigated using Sorensen's similarity index. An additional 500 samples from Arctic locations were used to provide a bipolar comparison. Using reliable literature data, gaps in the distribution of the Stauroneis taxa were filled. Results The Stauroneis flora of the Antarctic and sub-Antarctic regions is quite distinct from its Arctic equivalent, with only five species (out of 60) common to both areas. Within the (sub-)Antarctic group, the islands of the Indian Ocean have the most diverse Stauroneis composition, which is clearly separated from the rest of the region. The South Georgia Stauroneis composition has some affinities with the Antarctic Peninsula but the latter has far fewer species. These results are in clear contrast to older data showing no biogeographical difference between the Arctic and Antarctic regions. Main conclusions Using only a single genus, a clear biogeography of the (sub-)Antarctic region can be produced that separates the Indian Ocean islands from other sampling locations. When based on a precise taxonomy, biogeographical relationships between locations in the region become much more reliable. Contrary to previous work, there is almost no similarity in the diatom floras of the Arctic and Antarctic regions.		Univ Antwerp, Dept Biol, Unit Polar Ecol Limnol & Paleobiol, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium; CD Diever, Data Anal Ecol, Diever, Netherlands; [Van de Vijver, B] Univ Antwerp, Dept Biol, Unit Polar Ecol Limnol & Paleobiol, Groenenborgerlaan 171, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium								71							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000231904100009		
J	Brickle, P; MacKenzie, K; Pike, A								Parasites of the Patagonian toothfish, <i>Dissostichus eleginoides</i> Smitt 1898, in different parts of the Subantarctic								POLAR BIOLOGY				28	9			663	671		10.1007/s00300-005-0737-2			AUG 2005	2005	The parasite faunas of the Patagonian toothfish Dissostichus eleginoides from six locations around the Southern Ocean were studied and compared. Thirty-two parasite taxa were found. Ten parasite species are reported from D. eleginoides for the first time and some other previously reported species were new locality records. Sample size at Shag Rocks was sufficient to examine the effect of intrinsic host factors, including sex and length, on the parasite fauna and these results are discussed here. Some parasite species were found only in certain areas. Sorensen's similarity index indicated that the parasite faunas at Heard, Maquarie and Prince Edward Islands were the most similar, while those from the Ross Sea was the most dissimilar. There may be a gradual decrease in parasite diversity the further east the samples were collected around the Southern Ocean.		Falkland Isl Govt Fisheries Dept, Stanley, Falkland Island, England; Univ Aberdeen, Sch Biol Sci, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, Scotland; [Brickle, P] Falkland Isl Govt Fisheries Dept, POB 598, Stanley, Falkland Island, England								25							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000231421200002		
J	Southwood, TRE; Wint, GRW; Kennedy, CEJ; Greenwood, SR								The composition of the arthropod fauna of the canopies of some species of oak (<i>Quercus</i>)								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY				102	1			65	72		10.14411/eje.2005.009			MAR 25 2005	2005	1. A study was made by knockdown sampling and branch clipping of the arthropod fauna of the canopy of two native oak species (Quercus robur and Q. petraea) and of two introduced species (Q. cerris and Q. ilex) in woods near Oxford, UK, and of two native species (Q. pubescens and Q. ilex) in southern France. Sampling was undertaken for five years in the UK and for four years in France. All the specimens from the UK, except Acarina, Collembola and Nematocera were identified to species or, occasionally, to morphotype. 2. In terms of overall numbers, species richness and biomass, the results for Q. robur and Q. petraea in the UK were very similar. Their samples contained over three times the biomass and nearly double the number of species compared with those from the introduced oak species (Q. cerris and Q. ilex). 3. The ordinal composition was very similar on Q. robur and Q. petraea, and that on Q. cerris showed closer concordance to the composition of these trees than to that of Q. ilex in the UK. The ordinal composition of the faunas of the two native oak species in France showed closer concordance to each other than to any of the oak species in the UK. The proportion of Psocoptera was much higher in the UK, and that of Thysanoptera was higher in France. 4. The guild composition in terms of numbers, species richness and biomass were closely correlated on Q. robur and Q. petraea, and on Q. robur in two different woods, which argues for an underlying determinism in the development of community structure. The guild composition on the introduced species (Q. cerris and Q. ilex) was most closely correlated when expressed as species richness. 5. The similarity of the guild composition on the oak species in the UK in terms of the actual species found was tested by a modified Sorensen's Index. This showed that the guilds could be ranked in the following order of decreasing similarity: epiphyte fauna, tourists, scavengers, phytophages, parasitoids-predators. 6. There were distinct seasonal patterns. In terms of species richness the values showed a general trend peaking in summer and early autumn, but biomass peaked in May on the native oak species, mainly due to Lepidopterous larvae. The ratio of prey to predator and parasitoid biomass had a distinct seasonal pattern, there being an excess of prey in May, but almost an equivalence throughout the rest of the season. This may reflect the high population of spiders in the late summer and autumn, which are likely to feed on tourists. Most classical ecosystem models do not allow for this latter important source of food that is not itself dependent on the communities' habitat. 7. The epiphyte dwelling guild (principally grazing Psocoptera) was a major component of the fauna in terms of numbers on the evergreen Q. ilex in UK. This has been reported for other studies of evergreen species in temperate climates.		Dept Zool, Oxford OX1 3PS, England; [Southwood, TRE] Oxord Univ Press, Great Clarendon St, Oxford OX2 6DP, England								42							Entomology	WOS:000228027300009		
J	Qian, H; Ricklefs, RE; White, PS								Beta diversity of angiosperms in temperate floras of eastern Asia and eastern North America								ECOLOGY LETTERS				8	1			15	22		10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00682.x			JAN 2005	2005	The diversity of a region reflects both local diversity and the turnover of species (beta diversity) between areas. The angiosperm flora of eastern Asia (EAS) is roughly twice as rich as that of eastern North America (ENA), in spite of similar area and climate. Using province/state-level angiosperm species floras, we calculated beta diversity as the slope of the relationship between the log of species similarity (S ) and either geographic distance or difference in climate. Distance-based beta diversity was 2.6 times greater in the north-south direction in EAS than in ENA and 3.3 times greater in the east-west direction. When ln S was related to distance and climate difference in multiple regressions, both distance and climate PC1 were significant effects in the north-south direction, but only geographic distance had a significant, unique influence in the east-west direction. The general predominance of distance over environment in beta diversity suggests that history and geography have had a strong influence on the regional diversity of these temperate floras.		Univ Missouri, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO 63121 USA; Illinois State Museum, Res & Collect Ctr, Springfield, IL 62703 USA; Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol, Shenyang 110016, Liaoning, Peoples R China; Univ N Carolina, Dept Biol, Chapel Hill, NC 27599 USA; [Ricklefs, RE] Univ Missouri, Dept Biol, 8001 Nat Bridge Rd, St Louis, MO 63121 USA								280							Ecology	WOS:000225750300002		
J	Ritter, NP								Too wet for aquatic plants? Floristic composition and phytodiversity in the wetlands along the base of the Bolivian Andes								RHODORA				106	925			1	32					WIN 2004	2004	An investigation of the vascular plant flora of the wetlands in the Chapare, an extremely high-precipitation region along the base of the Bolivian Andes, was undertaken from 1994 to 1996. One hundred fifty-one species in 52 families and 107 genera were identified as occurring in the region's wetlands. In contrast to the terrestrial flora of the Chapare and of other regions in the Andean forelands, Chapare wetlands were found to be characteristically species-poor (5-49 species). Nevertheless, the Chapare wetland flora contained a number of rare or noteworthy species, and represented the southern distributional limit for a number of taxa. The diversity of Chapare "wetland species" (i.e., species considered to be strongly associated with Neotropical wetlands) was low relative to other South American lowland regions when considered in terms of total number of species and from species-area curves. A regional trend toward fewer wetland species with increased precipitation was apparent; however, data supporting this relationship were inconclusive. Despite low floristic similarities (Sorensen's Index) between study sites, the majority of the Chapare study sites were closely situated in an ordination by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) of the floras of 46 wetlands distributed throughout Bolivia. At the regional scale, floristic similarities with other regions considered in this study were relatively low. As might be expected, an ordination of the regional data indicated that the Chapare wetland flora was most strongly associated with the other lowland Bolivian regions, while the most geographically distant regions were also the furthest removed in ordination space.		Calif State Univ Stanislaus, Endangered Species Recovery Program, Fresno, CA 93727 USA; [Ritter, NP] Calif State Univ Stanislaus, Endangered Species Recovery Program, 1900 N Gateway Ave, Fresno, CA 93727 USA								2							Plant Sciences	WOS:000221151800001		
J	Amezaga, I; Mendarte, S; Albizu, I; Besga, G; Garbisu, C; Onaindia, M								Grazing intensity, aspect, and slope effects on limestone grassland structure								JOURNAL OF RANGE MANAGEMENT				57	6			606	612		10.2307/4004016			NOV 2004	2004	Three treatments were used to evaluate the effect of grazing intensity (ca 30% and 50% herbage removal), aspect (north and south), and slope (< 10% and 10%-30%) on plant community structure Of mountain grasslands in the Basque Country (Spain). plant species richness was not significantly affected by grazing intensity, aspect, or slope. Although plant species composition was similar (Sorensen's similarity index = 0.87) between both grazing intensities, species frequency and cover were affected by grazing intensity. Festuca rubra L. and Agrostis capillaris L. were the most common species under both grazing pressures. Moderate grazing intensity (50% herbage removal) plots contained a greater number of plant species with a frequency of more than 50%. The lowest cover for E rubra corresponded to low grazing intensity, north aspects, and steeper slopes. The lowest cover for A. capillaris was found under low grazing intensity (30% herbage removal) and steeper slopes. Danthonia decumbens (L.) P. C., Potentilla erecta (L.) Rauschal, and Trifolium repens L. were significantly affected by aspect and grazing intensity. Low grazing intensity oil sites with northern aspects and steep slopes favored Agrostis curtisii Kerguelen, a species with a low nutritional value. A. capillaris, A. curtisii, P. erecta, and T. repens were sensitive to soil properties and aspect. Nitrogen and K soil concentrations were significantly higher in areas with low grazing intensity, most likely due to greater dead herbage accumulation. Significant (P < 0.05) correlations between plant species and soil pH or P concentration were found in areas with low grazing intensity Reduction in grazing intensity together with the effect of slope and northern aspect has resulted in changes in plant community structure, leading to increases in forages with lower nutritional value.		Basque Inst Agr Res & Dev, Dept Agrosyst & Anim Prod, E-48160 Derio, Spain; Univ Basque Country, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, Fac Sci, E-48080 Bilbao, Spain; [Amezaga, I] Basque Inst Agr Res & Dev, Dept Agrosyst & Anim Prod, Berreage 1, E-48160 Derio, Spain								31							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science; Ecology	WOS:000225413800006		
J	Jobidon, R; Cyr, G; Thiffault, N								Plant species diversity and composition along art experimental gradient of northern hardwood abundance in <i>Picea mariana</i> plantations								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				198	1-3			209	221		10.1016/j.foreco.2004.04.020			AUG 23 2004	2004	Maintenance of biodiversity in managed forest ecosystem is an increasing concern, particularly in plantation forests. To test the two hypotheses that (i) past vegetation treatments modify species diversity and that (ii) a trade-off exists between plantation productivity and diversity, we measured plant species diversity in the upper, intermediate and lower strata of 16-17-year-old Picea mariana plantations along a gradient of hardwood abundance. The gradient was obtained with various intensities of non-chemical release and thinning treatments. P. mariana productivity linearly decreased as the proportion of hardwoods within the canopy increased. As the proportion of P. mariana increased, total species richness and plant diversity (Shannon index [9]) first increased up to an intermediate level, and then decreased. Proportion of non-crop to crop tree species explained 66% of the variation in species diversity of the upper strata, 0% of the intermediate strata, and 20% of the lower strata. Intensity of past vegetation treatments slightly affected species composition, as evaluated by the Sorensen's index of similarity. Maintaining an almost exclusive cover of P. mariana had marginal effects on species richness and understory diversity. But, a large increase in hardwoods proportion occurred at the expense of species richness and diversity of the understory stratum. Differences in canopy light transmission between covers could not explain this result. Variation in species richness and diversity along the gradient of hardwood abundance had a hump shape, a characteristic of the classic disturbance-diversity hypothesis. But, the intensity of past vegetation control had a weak predictive capability for plant species richness and diversity. Thus, vegetation control to maximise crop tree productivity in P. mariana plantations is not likely to affect understory plant diversity or composition. It may however contribute to an increase in stand structural diversity. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Foret Quebec, Direct Rech Forestiere, Ministere Ressources Nat Faune & Parcs, Ste Foy, PQ G1P 3W8, Canada; [Cyr, G] Foret Quebec, Direct Rech Forestiere, Ministere Ressources Nat Faune & Parcs, 2700 Einstein, Ste Foy, PQ G1P 3W8, Canada								37							Forestry	WOS:000223410500015		
J	Ortega, A; Navarro, FB								A myco-ecological analysis (lignicolous Aphyllophorales sensu lato, Basidiomycota) of the <i>Abies pinsapo</i>, <i>Quercus</i> and <i>Pinus</i> forests of Andalusia (southern Spain)								NOVA HEDWIGIA				78	3-4			485	499		10.1127/0029-5035/2004/0078-0485			MAY 2004	2004	This paper presents a mycological inventory (lignicolous Aphyllophorales) of five substrates that are characteristic of Mediterranean vegetation in Andalusia: Abies pinsapo, Quercus faginea, Quercus ilex subsp. ballota, Quercus suber and Pinus sp. pl. The species richness of each substrate was determined and related to the number of vegetation series to which these tree species belong. A series of parameters were used to determine the myco-ecological relationships in the substrates, namely the level of affinity proposed by Goslee, the level of similarity (Sorensen's quantitative index) and the level of diversity (degree of alpha diversity). A correspondence analysis was also carried out.		Univ Granada, Dept Biol Vegetal, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain; Consejeria Agr & Pesca, Ctr Invest & Formac Agraria, Junta Andalucia, Granada 18080, Spain; [Ortega, A] Univ Granada, Dept Biol Vegetal, Fac Ciencias, E-18071 Granada, Spain								8							Plant Sciences	WOS:000221617800017		
J	Brehm, G; Fiedler, K								Ordinating tropical moth ensembles from an elevational gradient: a comparison of common methods								JOURNAL OF TROPICAL ECOLOGY				20				165	172		10.1017/S0266467403001184			MAR 2004	2004	The analysis of beta diversity (inter-habitat diversity) of very species-rich and incompletely sampled tropical arthropod communities requires the choice of appropriate statistical tools. The performance of the three commonly employed ordination methods, correspondence analysis (CA), detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), was compared on a large empirical data set of geometrid moths sampled along an altitudinal gradient in an Andean montane rain forest. Despite the high species richness and incompleteness of the ensembles, all methods depicted the same, readily interpretable patterns. Both CA and NMDS showed an arch-like structure, which hints at an underlying coenocline, whereas this arch was computationally eliminated in DCA. For this particular data set, CA and NMDS both provided convincing results while the detrending algorithm of DCA did not improve the interpretability of the data. Of the large number of similarity indices available to be used in combination with NMDS, the binary Sorensen and the abundance-based Normalized Expected Species Shared (NESS) index were tested. Performance of the indices was measured by comparing stress, a measure of poorness-of-fit in NMDS. NMDS ordinations with lowest values of stress were achieved by the NESS index with the parameter m set to its maximum (m(max)). In contrast, ordinations based on NESS values with the parameter m set to 1 (identical with Morisita's index), had consistently higher stress values and performed worse than ordinations using Sorensen's index. Hence, if high values of m can be achieved in similar data sets, the NESS index with m(max) is recommended for ordination purposes and Morisita's index should be avoided.		Univ Bayreuth, Dept Anim Ecol 1, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Brehm, G] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Anim Ecol 1, POB 101251, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany								40							Ecology	WOS:000220913000004		
J	Felfili, JM; Jnior, MCD; Sevilha, AC; Fagg, CW; Walter, BMT; Nogueira, PE; Rezende, AV								Diversity, floristic and structural patterns of cerrado vegetation in Central Brazil								PLANT ECOLOGY				175	1			37	46		10.1023/B:VEGE.0000048090.07022.02			2004	2004	The cerrado has been identified as one of the richest and most threatened biomes of the world, but few phytogeographical studies have been undertaken in the region. A total of 70 land systems based on climate, landscape and soils have been identified in the region, but it remains to be seen if the distribution and structure of the plant communities support these divisions. The aim of this work was to compare the floristic and structural similarity of cerrado sensu stricto within and between three physiographic units, named Pratinha, Veadeiros and Sao Francisco, which contain six land systems in central Brazil and cover 10 degrees of latitude and five degrees of longitude. The woody vegetation of 15 selected sites of the cerrado sensu stricto physiognomy was surveyed under a standardized methodology. The number of species per site varied from 55 to 97, with most sites having around 60 to 70 species, and Shannon's diversity indices ranged from 3.44 to 3.73, with most sites around 3.5 suggesting high alpha diversity. Sorensen's floristic similarity index was high, with all Figures above 0.5 between the sites in the same land system in each physiographic unit but low between sites in different land systems in the Veadeiros. Czekanowski similarity indices were lower than Sorensen's in the comparisons due to a high structural differentiation between the sites. There is a large overlap in species occurrence in the sites but the size of their populations is very different at each site. Therefore, the high beta diversity is mostly due to differences in abundance of species between sites. The sites were separated by physiographic units, considering the first three divisions of TWINSPAN classification. The first axis of DCA ordination showed a gradient going from the cerrado on deep soils in Pratinha, through to those on sandy soils in Sao Francisco and ending on the shallower soils of the Veadeiros. Land systems conformed well with the floristic and structural variations of the vegetation, indicating their potential use in designing a network of conservation areas in the cerrado, region and as a basis for decision-making on management.		Univ Brasilia, Dept Engn Florestal, BR-70919970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; EMBRAPA Recursos Genet & Biotecnol, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Felfili, JM] Univ Brasilia, Dept Engn Florestal, CP 04357, BR-70919970 Brasilia, DF, Brazil								72							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000226444000003		
J	Fay, PA								Insect diversity in two burned and grazed grasslands								ENVIRONMENTAL ENTOMOLOGY				32	5			1099	1104		10.1603/0046-225X-32.5.1099			OCT 2003	2003	This study examined insect diversity in two native grassland ecosystems undergoing burning and grazing by bison and cattle, the Niobrara Valley Preserve (Nebraska) and the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve (Oklahoma). Sweep-sampling for insects was conducted during July 1994 and 1995 along transects in management units that were grazed by bison and partially burned, grazed by cattle and either burned (Tallgrass) or unburned (Niobrara), or ungrazed and unburned. At both sites, species richness (S) and diversity (log series alpha) were higher and similarity (Sorensen's index) lower for bison than for cattle or ungrazed management units. High bison management unit diversity was associated with significantly higher S and alpha in burned (Tallgrass) and unburned (Niobrara) portions of bison units compared with their respective cattle units, suggesting that habitat heterogeneity in terms of plant productivity, composition, and structure were higher in bison versus cattle and ungrazed management units. Replicated factorial experiments and sampling of additional taxa and time points are needed to verify bow fire and grazing management impacts insect diversity in these grasslands.		Kansas State Univ, Div Biol, Manhattan, KS 66506 USA; [Fay, PA] Nat Resources Res Inst, 5013 Miller Truck Highway, Duluth, MN 55811 USA								20							Entomology	WOS:000186445200022		
J	Eilu, G; Obua, J; Tumuhairwe, JK; Nkwine, C								Traditional farming and plant species diversity in agricultural landscapes of south-western Uganda								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				99	1-3			125	134		10.1016/S0167-8809(03)00140-3			OCT 2003	2003	An effort was undertaken in Bushwere Parish (Mbarara district, south-western Uganda) between 1999 and 2000 to develop sustainable and participatory approaches to plant biodiversity conservation at the farm level. One hundred farmers were interviewed on their socio-economic profiles and plant use strategies. Plant diversity was assessed in 400 plots of 5 m x 5 m established in 53 field types of seven land-use categories. The most species-rich land-use category was under annual crops (149 plant species) while the most species-rich field type was planted with bananas (118 species). Shannon diversity and Sorensen's similarity indices were used to compute species diversity and similarity, respectively, between field types and land-uses. The most plant diverse land-use was natural woodland, the least fallow. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) showed that occurrence of species, field type or land-use depended upon environmental factors such as elevation, position on the slope and soil type. Redundancy analysis (RDA) showed that species utility and occurrence were related to the socio-economic status of farmers. Plant species were most diverse in land-uses located on hill tops and steep slopes. Farmers should therefore be advised on how to maintain plant diversity in agricultural landscapes. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.		Makerere Univ, Dept Forest Biol & Ecosyst Management, Kampala, Uganda; Makerere Univ, Dept Soil Sci, Kampala, Uganda; [Eilu, G] Makerere Univ, Dept Forest Biol & Ecosyst Management, POB 7062, Kampala, Uganda								19							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000186022300009		
J	Rajashekhar, M; Kaveriappa, KM								Diversity of aquatic hyphomycetes in the aquatic ecosystems of the Western Ghats of India								HYDROBIOLOGIA				501	1-3			167	177		10.1023/A:1026239917232			JUL 2003	2003	Relationships between physico-chemical factors of waters, riparian vegetation, altitude and species richness of the hyphomycete communities in six rivers and a sulfur spring in the Western Ghats of Karnataka were analysed statistically. Linear regression and correlation between log fungal species and riparian vegetation was highly significant. The similarity in the fungal diversity between different rivers and the sulphur spring was evaluated by Sorensen's index. Generally, the indices of similarity in the mycoflora between the streams were high. However, in the streams of Lakya, Bhadra, Ranganathittu bird sanctuary and the sulfur spring the indices of similarity were low compared with the rest of the water systems. The low pH, low oxygen concentration, hardness, high iron, high temperature and sulfide contents of the waters of these streams are thought to be the reasons for the differences in these streams. Anguillospora longissima, Helicomyces roseus, Lunulospora curvula, Triscelophorus monosporus and Wiesneriomyces laurinus were found to be the most abundant species.		Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalagangothri 574199, Karnataka, India; Mangalore Univ, Dept Appl Bot, Mangalagangothri 574199, Karnataka, India; [Rajashekhar, M] Mangalore Univ, Dept Biosci, Mangalagangothri 574199, Karnataka, India								28							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000186041800017		
J	Seplveda, R; Cancino, JM; Thiel, M								The peracarid epifauna associated with the ascidian <i>Pyura chilensis</i> (Molina, 1782) (Ascidiacea: Pyuridae)								JOURNAL OF NATURAL HISTORY				37	13			1555	1569		10.1080/00222930110099615			JUL 2003	2003	Epifaunal peracarids inhabit a variety of biogenic substrata, including ascidians. Herein we examined the peracarid fauna living on the tunica of the sublittoral ascidian Pyura chilensis growing in offshore and nearshore conditions in Bahia San Vicente, Chile. From a total of 38 samples we collected 17 species of Amphipoda, five Isopoda and two Tanaidacea. The similarity between the sites was high (73.8%, Sorensen's index). Species diversity ( H' ) was 2.8 and 2.6, evenness ( J ) was 0.7 and 0.6 at the offshore and nearshore site, respectively. Both species and individual number increased significantly with the size (volume) of the ascidian samples, and these relationships did not differ between the sites. Many species, in particular the most abundant ones, occurred at both sites, but some species were restricted either to the offshore (three species) or to the nearshore site (seven species). Amphipods and tanaids were the most abundant taxa at both sites. The peracarid fauna at both sites was dominated by suspension-feeding peracarids (>80% of the individuals), which utilize the ascidians primarily as shelter, feeding on allochthonous material, i.e. not originating from the ascidians. It is suggested that the high percentage of suspension-feeding species among the epifaunal peracarids is due to the fact that ascidians settle and grow at sites that provide optimal feeding conditions for these organisms.		Univ Catolica Norte, Fac Ciencias Mar, Coquimbo, Chile; Univ Catolica Santisima Concepcion, Fac Ciencias, Concepcion, Chile; [Thiel, M] Univ Catolica Norte, Fac Ciencias Mar, Larrondo 1281, Coquimbo, Chile								22							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000183334600002		
J	Jrgens, A; Witt, T; Gottsberger, G								Flower scent composition in <i>Dianthus</i> and <i>Saponaria</i> species (Caryophyllaceae) and its relevance for pollination biology and taxonomy								BIOCHEMICAL SYSTEMATICS AND ECOLOGY				31	4			345	357		10.1016/S0305-1978(02)00173-4			APR 2003	2003	Floral fragrance compounds of seven Dianthus species (D. arenarius, D. armeria, D. barbatus, D. deltoides, D. monspessulanus, D. superbus, and D. sylvestris) and one Saponaria species (S. officinalis) (Caryophyllaceae) were studied using headspace adsorption technique followed by gas chromatography massspectrometry (GC-MS). The number of compounds (fatty acid derivatives, benzenoids, phenyl propanoids, isoprenoids, and nitrogen containing compounds) identified in the floral odors ranged from 18 to 51 but all were dominated by only 1-3 compounds. Most of the compounds identified in this study have been previously reported in floral scents from species of the closely related genus Silene L. However, the phenyl propanoids eugenol, methyleugenol, methylisoeugenol, cis-asarone, and trans-asarone have formerly not been found in Silene. Based on the measurement of Sorensen's index of similarity (I-s) nonmetric multidimensional scaling (MDS) was used to detect meaningful underlying dimensions and to visualize similarities between the investigated species. The MDS analysis showed three groups of species, (1) the diurnal D. armeria, D. barbatus, and D. deltoides are characterized by the predominance of fatty acid derivatives, (2) the closely related nocturnal D. monspessulanus, and D. superbus by high relative amounts of isoprenoids such as cis-beta-ocimene and beta-caryophyllene, and (3) the,species D. arenarius, D. sylvestris and S. officinalis by a predominance of benzenoids, especially methylbenzoate. The results are discussed in relation to pollination, especially by butterflies, moths, and hawkmoths. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.		Univ Bayreuth, Dept Plant Systemat, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; Univ Ulm, Dept Syst Bot & Ecol, D-89081 Ulm, Germany								80							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000181719300001		
J	Sait, L; Galic, M; Strugnell, RA; Janssen, PH								Secretory antibodies do not affect the composition of the bacterial microbiota in the terminal ileum of 10-week-old mice								APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY				69	4			2100	2109		10.1128/AEM.69.4.2100-2109.2003			APR 2003	2003	Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis was conducted on the 16S rRNA genes of the bacterial communities colonizing the epithelial surfaces of the terminal ilea of open conventionally housed mice in an institutional small-animal facility. Polymeric-immunoglobulin-receptor-deficient (pIgR(-/-)) mice that were unable to secrete antibodies across mucosal surfaces were cohoused with normal and otherwise genetically identical wild-type (C57BL/6) mice for 4 weeks. If secretory antibodies played a role in modeling the gastrointestinal microbiota, C57BL/6 mice would have had a more distinct and uniform microbiota than their pIgR(-/-) cage mates. The T-RFLP profiles of the bacterial communities were compared by using Sorensen's pairwise similarity coefficient, a newly developed weighted pairwise similarity coefficient, and on the basis of Shannon's and Simpson's diversity indices. No systematic diferences were observed between the dominant components of the mucosa-associated bacterial communities of the terminal ileal walls of the two types of mice, indicating that secretory antibodies do not control the composition of this microbiota. Similar analyses of experiments conducted at two different times, between which the bacterial community composition of the mouse colony in the small-animal facility appeared to have changed, showed that differences could have been detected, had they existed.		Univ Melbourne, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia; [Janssen, PH] Univ Melbourne, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Melbourne, Vic 3010, Australia								79							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Microbiology	WOS:000182151800031		
J	Trejo, I; Dirzo, R								Floristic diversity of Mexican seasonally dry tropical forests								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				11	11			2063	2084		10.1023/A:1020876316013			NOV 2002	2002	Studies of the variation in tropical plant species diversity and its relationship with environmental factors are largely based on research in tropical moist/wet forests. Seasonally dry tropical forests (SDTFs), in contrast, have been poorly investigated. In this paper we present data from 20 Mexican SDTF sites sampled to describe the magnitude of floristic diversity in these forests and to address the following questions: (i) to what extent is species diversity related to rainfall? (ii) Are there other climatic variables that explain variation in species diversity in SDTFs? (iii) How does species identity vary spatially (species turnover) within the country? We found that species diversity was consistently greater (a ca. twofold difference) than would be expected according to the sites' precipitation. Rainfall did not significantly explain the variation in species diversity. Likewise, the number of dry and wet months per year was unrelated to species diversity. In contrast, a simple measure of potential evapotranspiration (Thornthwaite's index) significantly explained the variation in species diversity. In addition to the great diversity of species per site (local diversity), species turnover was considerable: of a total of 917 sampled species, 72% were present only in a single site and the average similarity (Sorensen's index) among sites was only 9%. These aspects of floristic diversity and the high deforestation rates of these forests in Mexico indicate that conservation efforts should be directed to tropical forests growing in locations of low and seasonal rainfall.		Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ecol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Geog, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Dirzo, R] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ecol, AP 70-275, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								183							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000178929600011		
J	Roberts, MR; Zhu, LX								Early response of the herbaceous layer to harvesting in a mixed coniferous-deciduous forest in New Brunswick, Canada								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				155	1-3			17	31		10.1016/S0378-1127(01)00544-8			JAN 1 2002	2002	We studied plant communities before and after two types of clearcutting to determine their response and their relationships to disturbance intensity and to make management recommendations. Permanent plots sampled before and for 2 years after harvesting were used to compare changes in the herbaceous layer for 2 years after harvest in three treatments: clearcutting with natural regeneration (C), clearcutting with mechanical site preparation and planting (CS) and uncut control (UC). The greatest compositional changes occurred in the CS treatment, where 16 species were lost and 20 new species were gained compared to 14 lost and 16 gained in the C treatment. The number of forest habitat species decreased 20-24% by the second year after harvest in both treated areas. Species that were lost included Cypripedium acaule, Monotropa hypopithys, Orthilia secunda, Ribes lacustre, Streptopus amplexifolius, Thelypteris noveboracensis and Vaccinium vitis-idaea. The number and cover of disturbance-adapted species increased about 250% in the CS treatment compared to 200% for the C treatment. Mean total species richness per plot, Shannon-Wiener, Simpson and evenness diversity indices were significantly greater (P < 0.05) the second year after harvest than before hat-vest in the two harvest treatments. Richness of forest species significantly declined in both treated areas, Sorensen's similarity index (each post-harvest year versus pre-harvest) increased with time in all treatments and was lowest in the CS treatment. Cover of most growth forms, especially bryophytes, decreased after harvesting in the two harvest areas, whereas small trees/shrubs and graminoids increased, particularly in the CS treatment. Cover of conifer seedlings and bryophytes greatly decreased in the C treatment where coniferous stand types dominated before harvest. Four non-native taxa (Plantago major, Ranunculus acris, Taraxacum officinale and Veronica officinalis) were encountered in the study. In 1997, total cover of non-natives was 0.2% in the CS treatment and <0.05% in the C and UC treatments. We conclude that the more dramatic changes in species composition and diversity in the CS treatment are the result of greater forest floor disturbance caused by site preparation. Protection of forest understory plants can be improved by minimizing forest floor disturbance, maintaining shade cover and leaving uncut strips or patches in areas containing species that are sensitive to harvesting. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ New Brunswick, Fac Forestry & Environm Management, Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2, Canada; Inland Timber Management Ltd, Williams Lake, BC V5G 1Z5, Canada; [Roberts, MR] Univ New Brunswick, Fac Forestry & Environm Management, POB 44555, Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2, Canada				2nd North American Forest Ecology Workshop	JUN 27-30, 1999	Soc Amer Foresters, Forest Ecol Working Grp; USDA, Forest Serv	UNIV MAINE, ORONO, ME	139							Forestry	WOS:000173385100003		
J	Arnold, AE; Maynard, Z; Gilbert, GS								Fungal endophytes in dicotyledonous neotropical trees: patterns of abundance and diversity								MYCOLOGICAL RESEARCH				105				1502	1507		10.1017/S0953756201004956			DEC 2001	2001	Fungal endophytes have been found in every plant species examined to date and appear to be important, but largely unquantified, components of fungal biodiversity. Endophytes are especially little known in tropical forest trees, where their abundance and diversity are thought to be greatest. Here, we explore the occurrence of endophytes in a broad diversity of woody, angiospermous taxa in a lowland, moist tropical forest in central Panama. We use similarity indices to assess host preference and spatial heterogeneity of endophytes associated with two co-occurring but distantly related, understorey tree species in two sites of that forest, and assess the utility of indices based on frequencies of morphospecies occurrence (Morisita-Horn index) and on presence-absence data (Sorensen's index). We suggest that our understanding of fungal diversity will be enhanced by exploring ecological patterns underlying endophyte occurrence in host species, and discuss methods for assessing the proportion of fungal biodiversity represented by tropical endophytes.		Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa, Panama; Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Dept Environm Studies, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA; [Arnold, AE] Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA				2nd Asia-Pacific Mycological Congress on Biodiversity and Biotechnology	JUL 09-13, 2000		HONG KONG, PEOPLES R CHINA	201							Mycology	WOS:000173613200014		
J	Grandin, U								Short-term and long-term variation in seed bank/vegetation relations along an environmental and successional gradient								ECOGRAPHY				24	6			731	741		10.1034/j.1600-0587.2001.240611.x			DEC 2001	2001	The seed bank along a successional and environmental gradient was analysed. Soil was collected in 3-cm thick horizons from permanent plots along two transects across a land uplift seashore, spanning several centuries of succession from shoreline to mature forest. Vegetation in the plots was recorded when the soil was sampled and also 9 and 15 yr before that. Within- and between-plot effects on seed bank/vegetation relationships were analysed using estimates of seed longevity, Sorensen's similarity index and mean Ellenberg indicator values. A seed bank longevity index was constructed by using the database by Thompson et al. (1997. The soil seed banks of north west Europe. Methodology, density and longevity. - Cambridge Univ. Press), for all species with more than one entry in the database. For species with one or no entry, an internal index was constructed. The two indices were correlated and it was suggested that the internal index should be used where the Thompson database is insufficient. There were small differences between the upper three soil horizons in seed density, in similarity with the vegetation and in mean Ellenberg values. The highest seed densities and seed bank/vegetation similarities were found at the shoreline, after that the density and the similarity decreased with increasing successional age, with the mature forest having very low seed density and similarity values. Weighted mean Ellenberg indicator values for light, nitrogen, salt and moisture differed between vegetation and seed bank. For the seed bank, the mean Ellenberg values for light, moisture and nitrogen and weighted mean of seed bank longevity indices showed a trend along one of the transects.		Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Environm Assessment, S-75007 Uppsala, Sweden; [Grandin, U] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Environm Assessment, Box 7050, S-75007 Uppsala, Sweden								38							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000173491900011		
J	De Villiers, AJ; Van Rooyen, MW; Theron, GK								Seedbank phytosociology of the Strandveld Succulent Karoo, South Africa: A pre-mining benchmark survey for rehabilitation								LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT				12	2			119	130		10.1002/ldr.443			MAR-APR 2001	2001	Prior to the mining of heavy minerals, the seedbank of the Strandveld Succulent Karoo was investigated to serve as a benchmark for the future rehabilitation of the area. Seedbank composition and species' abundance were determined with the seedling emergence method. By using the Braun-Blanquet method, five main vegetation units were identified in concordance with results obtained for the standing vegetation. A total of 108 species were recorded in the seedbank, which represents c. 50 per cent of the species recorded in the standing vegetation of the total study area. Seven annual species (3 per cent) were unique to the soil seedbank. On community level, similarity in species composition between the standing vegetation and the soil seedbank ranged between 39.2 per cent and 48.8 per cent, with a similarity of 54.3 per cent for the total study area. Annual and perennial species' similarity in species composition between the standing vegetation and the seed bank totalled 74.8 per cent and 43.1 per cent respectively. Post-mining topsoil replacement as well as seeding and transplanting of selected local species will be essential to revegetate this area. Copyright (C) 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		Univ Pretoria, Dept Bot, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [De Villiers, AJ] Univ Pretoria, Dept Bot, Vetman Bldg, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa								8							Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000169102600003		
J	Casamatta, DA; Verb, RG								Algal colonization of submerged carcasses in a mid-order woodland stream								JOURNAL OF FORENSIC SCIENCES				45	6			1280	1285					NOV 2000	2000	One of the primary goals of forensic pathology is the determination of time of death. In aquatic systems, one method to do this is to analyze the colonization of a corpse by algae. Algal communities typically follow a serial colonization pattern, therefore the taxa present at any given time may provide clues about postmortem submersion time. This study was undertaken to examine the algal colonization on rat carcasses in a medium-order woodland stream. Two habitats were studied: a low flow pool and a high flow riffle, with rats being removed from each site every 3 to 6 days over 31 days. The diversity of colonizing taxa increased at both sites as the study progressed, and after 17 days similar taxa were present (Sorensen's similarity index >60%) in each site. Some taxa, such as desmids (Chlorophyta), tended to increase in diversity throughout the study, making them possible indicators of submersion time. Diatoms were the most abundant taxa found in each site and accounted for 63 of the 92 total taxa identified. Due to their ubiquitous presence in nearly all streams, we suggest that diatoms may be the key organisms for the study of postmortem submersion in lotic systems.		Ohio Univ, Dept Environm & Plant Biol, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Casamatta, DA] Ohio Univ, Dept Environm & Plant Biol, Athens, OH 45701 USA								18							Medicine, Legal	WOS:000165368400018		
J	Dupr, C								How to determine a regional species pool:: a study in two Swedish regions								OIKOS				89	1			128	136		10.1034/j.1600-0706.2000.890114.x			APR 2000	2000	The species pool hypothesis has been proposed as one of the possible explanations for the local species richness of plant communities. For testing and validating this theory, it is of crucial importance to determine the dimension of the regional pool, which is the reservoir of species that are potentially able to exist in a community. The main purpose of this study was to develop and rest different methods for the determination of the regional species pool. Two regions in Sweden served as study areas, Oland and Uppland. In both regions, three different vegetation types were treated: dry calcareous grasslands, coastal meadows and deciduous forests. For the determination of the regional pool two main groups of methods are proposed: 1) six ecological approaches, based on Ellenberg species indicator values, and 2) two phytosociological approaches, based on the occurrence of species in different syntaxa in the framework of the Braun-Blanquet system. The different screening methods were tested using Sorensen's index expressing the similarity between the community species pool and the regional species pool. Two types of error were recognized which may result in low index values. For the six ecological methods Sorensen's index values were below 50%. The methods differed considerably from each other in accuracy, due to large differences in errors of both types. The phytosociological methods resulted in higher similarity values of up to almost 70%. The two approaches differed in error type but gave similar results.		Uppsala Univ, Evolutionary Biol Ctr, Dept Plant Ecol, Villavagen 14, SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden; Uppsala Univ, Evolutionary Biol Ctr, Dept Plant Ecol, Villavagen 14, SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden								48							Ecology	WOS:000086227400014		
J	Oosterhoorn, M; Kappelle, M								Vegetation structure and composition along an interior-edge-exterior gradient in a Costa Rican montane cloud forest								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				126	3			291	307		10.1016/S0378-1127(99)00101-2			FEB 25 2000	2000	A study was carried out in the Costa Rican Cordillera de Talamanca in order to assess changes in vegetation structure and floristic composition along a gradient from the interior of tropical upper montane cloud forest into adjacent pastureland. At four sites a 150 x 10 m belt transect was established perpendicular to the forest/pasture edge. Vegetation transect censusing included recording of seed plane species presence and abundance (aerial crown/shoot cover), as well as assessment of seedling sapling and tree stem diameter and height. A total of 290 seed plant species were found in 159 genera and 85 families. Asteraceae is with 47 species the most speciose family. Shannon-Wiener's diversity index showed no significant difference between forest and pastureland, with the exception of a pastureland site which had experienced intensive land use. Sorensen's similarity index showed significant differences in species composition between forest and pastureland. Vegetation at the forest edge consisted mainly of secondary shrub and tree species. From the forest interior towards the edge, numbers of seedlings, saplings and secondary trees increased, while numbers of mature forest trees declined. Edge effects are expressed in a reduction of canopy height and an increase in subcanopy stature from the forest interior towards the edge, causing thr merging of forest canopy and subcanopy layers at the edge. Intensively used pasturelands only harboured a low herbaceous vegetation, while their abandoned equivalents showed the presence of patches of secondary shrub vegetation and recovering forest in a grassland matrix. Expected spatio-temporal changes at the forest edge include the encroachment of secondary vegetation and the levelling of the forest/pasture border as time advances and land use becomes less intense. Transitional second,growth edge vegetation may buffer the remaining mature forest core and simultaneously induce forest recovery processes in adjacent abandoned pasturelands. It is recommended to include forest edge tree species in programs focused at the ecological restoration of tropical montane cloud forests. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ Amsterdam, Hugo de Vries Lab, NL-1098 SM Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Kappelle, M] Inst Nacl Biodiversidad, Apartado Postal 22-3100, Santo Domingo de Heredia, Costa Rica								90							Forestry	WOS:000085126100003		
J	Dmowska, E								Nematode communities in subalpine meadows in Central Pyrenees								ANNALES ZOOLOGICI				50	2			211	220					2000	2000	Studies were carried out in subalpine meadows in the "Massif Neouvielle" in Central Pyrenees (France). Three habitats differing in humidity temperature and soil pH were selected: 1 - dry and warm acidic soil, 2 - medium dry acidic soil, 3 - wet and cold, neutral soil. One hundred and for ty nematode species belonging to 7 orders, 21 families and 71 genera were found in studied material. Quantitative parameters: total number, numbers of families and genera of nematode communities from analyzed sites were poorly differentiated. However, great differences were found in composition and structure of studied communities. Dry and warm soil was dominated by nematodes of three orders: Areolaimida (27.02%), Dorylaimida (25.48%) and Tylenchida (24.32%), eudominants being genera: Aporcelaimellus, Paratylenchus and Prismatolaimus, In medium dry soil dominated Tylenchida (44.54%), Areolaimida (17.38%), Rhabditida (14.5%) and eudominants were: Acrobeloides, Rhabdolaimus and Rotylenchus. Enoplida (63.01%) dominated in wet and cold soil and eudominant was Rhabdolaimus. Shannon Index of diversity for genera in dry and warm soil was 3.77, in medium dry 4.24, and in wet and cold soil 3.06. Fourteen species were common for all three sites. Low values of Sorensen's similarity index (below 40%) show a low similarity at a species level between communities from various sites.		Polish Acad Sci, Inst Ekologii, PL-05092 Lomianki, Poland; [Dmowska, E] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Ekologii, Dziekanow Lesny, PL-05092 Lomianki, Poland								7							Entomology	WOS:000165338400012		
J	Sklenr, P; Jorgensen, PM								Distribution patterns of paramo plants in Ecuador								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				26	4			681	691		10.1046/j.1365-2699.1999.00324.x			JUL 1999	1999	We will analyse the geographical and vertical distributions of Ecuadorian high paramo plants. Lists of species were prepared for six Ecuadorian mountains, and floristic relationships among them were expressed by means of Sorensen's index of similarity. A mantel test was employed to analyse the pattern of geographical distribution of the species to see it: the distance between the mountains was sufficient to explain the differences discovered. Altitudinal range and mean altitude of species occurrence were tested against the number of mountains from which the species were recorded using a Kruskal-Wallis nonparametric test. We found that distance as a single factor can not fully explain the pattern of floristic similarity shared by the mountains. Other important factors are involved. Altitudinal range of the species examined was positively correlated with their distribution in Ecuador. Species with a broad altitudinal occurrence were found on several mountains, whereas species with narrow altitudinal distribution were found on fewer mountains.		Aarhus Univ, Herbarium AAU, Dept Systemat Bot, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark; Missouri Bot Garden, St Louis, MO 63166 USA; Charles Univ Prague, Dept Bot, Benatska 2, Prague 12801 2, Czech Republic								73							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000084684400001		
J	Butler, BJ; Barclay, JS; Fisher, JP								Plant communities and Flora of Robins Island (Long Island), New York								JOURNAL OF THE TORREY BOTANICAL SOCIETY				126	1			63	76		10.2307/2997256			JAN-MAR 1999	1999	The Coastal Lowland Ecozone of New York State has been greatly dissected and altered from its natural state. Robins Island represents one of the few undeveloped and relatively intact ecosystems remaining in this ecozone; it offers a unique opportunity to study the region's natural processes. The plant communities of Robins Island were inventoried using a combination of belt transects and quadrats. A total of 12 natural, non-lacustrine plant communities ranging in size from 0.1 to 108 hectares were identified on Robins Island: three forest, two shrubland, two grassland, three palustrine, and two sparsely vegetated communities. The Bayberry-Phragmites community contained a combination of xeric (e.g., Myrica pensylvanica) and hydric (e.g., Phragmites australis) species that have not been reported in other natural circumstances. The island's other communities were similar to descriptions of other regional plant communities, although Robins Island's communities were relatively depauperate. Based upon a detrended correspondence analysis, variability among each community's transects ranged from high to low; this variability was associated with the random sampling design, inherent heterogeneity, physiographic characteristics, and edge effects. The island's flora consisted of 215 species of vascular plants representing 151 genera and 60 families; seven species were rare or endangered in New York State and 30% of the flora was non-native and naturalized. The flora showed a greater similarity to neighboring Shelter Island (Sorensen's similarity index [SSI] = 55%) than to the adjacent north and south forks of eastern Long Island (SSI = 36 and 38%).		Univ Connecticut, Wildlife Conservat Res Ctr, Dept Nat Resource Management & Engn, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Butler, BJ] Oregon State Univ, Dept Forest Sci, Forestry Sci Lab 020, Peavy Hall 154, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA								2							Plant Sciences	WOS:000078871200008		
J	Naimark, EB; Ulitina, LR; Markov, AV								Quantitative analysis of the biogeography of Devonian Rugoses								PALEONTOLOGICHESKII ZHURNAL					6			16	23					NOV-DEC 1998	1998	Four quantitative parameters were used to describe the changes in the;biogeography of rugoses during the Devonian: (1) Sorensen's mean coefficient of similarity (mean similarity in all pairs of regions), (2) standard coefficient of similarity (per unit), (3) Shennon's coefficient of similarity (showing the regularity in distribution of similarity among the pairs of regions), and (4) percentage of endemics. The second coefficient is new for biogeographic studies. Calculations were made on species, genera, and family levels. The quantitative parameters used are not contradictory, but rather complementary, and, taken together, help to create a more informative picture of changes in biogeographic patterns. The dynamics of the parameters on generic and familial levels are similar, but quite different from that studied on the species level. The increase of the overall biogeographic similarity during the Frasnian was probably caused by mass extinction of endemic taxa in all regions, followed by spreading of a new cohort of generalist taxa.		Russian Acad Sci, Inst Paleontol, Moscow, Russia; [Naimark, EB] Russian Acad Sci, Inst Paleontol, Moscow, Russia								3							Paleontology	WOS:000079377600003		
J	Stoyneva, MP								Spring-phytoplankton of the River Danube in the year 1990								ARCHIV FUR HYDROBIOLOGIE					2			167	194					OCT 1998	1998	The paper provides data on the composition and abundance of the spring (1990) Danube phytoplankton between Lint and Izmail (kilometres 2132-93). In total more than 332 algal taxa (except diatoms) were determined. The number of species slightly increased downstream. Number of species per site varied between 32 and 127. Most of the algae (60%) were rarely distributed in the Danube river and had frequency quotients (FQ) between 2 and 20%. Monoraphidium arcuatum (Kors.) Hind., M, contortum (Thur.) Kom.-Legn, M. komarkovae Nyg. and Scenedesmus communis (Turp.) Hegew. were the broadly distributed (FQ = 100%) algae. According to the values of Sorensen's index most of the sites (47%) show similarity between 51 and 60%. Species of Stephanodiscus hantzschii Grun. - group and Nitzschia acicularis W. Smith + Diatoma elongatum (Lyngb.) Ag. dominated the phytoplankton community and pennate diatoms prevaled over centrics at the sites located downstream. Phytoplankton cell numbers and biomass varied from 10.73 x 10(5) cells.l(-1) to 384.10 x 10(5) cells.l(-1) and from 0.18 mg.l(-1) to 4.87 mg.l(-1), respectively. A general slight decrease in algal abundance along the Danube river flow, as well as some differences between the stretches located above and below the Iron Gate reservoirs were established. Variations in the species composition and in the relative quantitative participation of different algal groups occurred from site to site. These fluctuations were due to the multiplicity of possible causative factors; In the absence of nutrient limitation the spatial changes of the community structure were connected mainly with the amplitudes of physico-chemical parameters and biotic interactions.		Sofia Univ St Kliment Ohridski, Dept Bot, Fac Biol, BU-1421 Sofia, Bulgaria; [Stoyneva, MP] Sofia Univ St Kliment Ohridski, Dept Bot, Fac Biol, 8 Bld Dr Zankov, BU-1421 Sofia, Bulgaria								2							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000082203700005		
J	Krajca, A; Krumpalova, Z								Epigeic spider (Araneae) communities of nickel leach dumps and their surroundings near Sered' (Slovakia)								BIOLOGIA				53	2			173	187					APR 1998	1998	The research of the araneofauna occurring on nickel leach dumps near Sered' (SW Slovakia) was carried out from November 1993 to November 1995. Four different study plots were investigated - an extensive dump without vegetation, a recultivated dump, a torso of a meadow near an extensive dump and near-by oat held. A total of 7,807 spider belonging to 144 species were caught using pitfall traps. The extensive dump was characterised by the penetration of small spiders, mainly from the families Linyphiidae, Theridiidae and Zodariidae. The recultivated dump was characterised by the dominance of families Linyphiidae (the same abundance as in the extensive dump), Lycosidae and Gnaphosidae, which showed an increase in abundance of spiders similar to the extensive dump. The oat field was characterised by typical spider species of agrocoenoses. The colonisation of the dumps by spiders strongly depended upon the presence of vegetation and the ability of spiders to migrate from the surrounding areas. The highest similarity of spider communities was found between the extensive dump and the torso of a meadow (using Sorensen's index) and between the recultivated dump and the oat field (using Renkonen's index). Expansive species inhabiting mainly ruderal biotopes, gardens and agrocoenoses occurred on all four study plots. With respect to humidity requirements these species ranked among oligohygric and mesohygric ones.		Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Zool, SK-84206 Bratislava, Slovakia; [Krajca, A] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Dubravska Cesta 9, SK-84206 Bratislava, Slovakia								3							Biology	WOS:000073924300005		
J	Small, PF; Malone, CE								Seasonal variation in the structure of diatom communities in two Pennsylvania streams								JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY				13	1			15	20		10.1080/02705060.1998.9663586			MAR 1998	1998	Current research has demonstrated that a guild of at least a dozen diatom genera dominates the autotrophic base of the systems in the Perkiomen and Skippack Creeks in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. Previous research in the Skippack alone demonstrated that the common genera exhibited distinct periodicities and suggested that total diatom densities were similar from sampling dates centered around the autumnal and vernal equinoxes. We investigated the question of whether the diversity, richness, and equitability of the diatom guild were the same or different at the equinoxes. Collections at fourteen day intervals centered around the equinoxes of 1992-3 and 1994-5. Densities per date were determined by Whipple field counts, and analyses of diversity, richness, equitability, and community similarity were made using Simpson's Index of Diversity and Sorensen's Coefficient of Similarity. We found that the diatom communities are not the same at the equinoxes, including their total densities and dominant genera. Generic richness varied little between seasons, but the systems were more diverse at the vernal equinox because of changes in equitability.		Ursinus Coll, Dept Biol, Collegeville, PA 19426 USA; [Small, PF] Ursinus Coll, Dept Biol, Collegeville, PA 19426 USA								2							Ecology; Limnology	WOS:000072309100003		
J	Migne, A; Davoult, D								Quantitative distribution of benthic macrofauna of the Dover Strait pebble community (Eastern English channel, France)								OCEANOLOGICA ACTA				20	2			453	460					1997	1997	Because of strong tidal currents, the bottom of the Dover Strait consists of coarse sediment which is colonized by a pebble community. A quantitative study, based on 0.1 m(2) quadrat samples taken by divers, was conducted on this community to establish the richness of benthic macrofauna (in terms of biomass and diversity) and to provide conclusive data on global community structure (spatial and temporal heterogeneity, trophic structure). Eight samples were taken between June 1992 and June 1993, eight replicates being taken on each sampling visit. One hundred and one species were identified, in 10 zoological groups, and a mean biomass of 281 g.m(-2) (ash free dry weight) was calculated. The Shannon diversity index was low (H' = 1.24) because of the strong dominance of three species. The echinoderm Ophiothrix fragilis and the two cnidarians Urticina felina and Alcyonium digitatum accounted for at least 97 % of the total biomass at all sampling periods. Spatial heterogeneity, studied at the settle of 0.1 m(2) by hierarchical cluster analysis based on Sorensen's qualitative similarity index and by Factor Correspondence Analysis on biomasses,seemed low and was due to the strong dispersion of rare species. Hierarchical cluster analysis and FCA, performed at the scale of 0.8 m(2) on periods of sampling, showed temporal homogeneity. The seasonal influence on biomass did not affect its distribution in species or trophic groups. Suspension-feeders accounted for 99.8% of total biomass.		[Migne, A] UNIV SCI & TECHNOL,STN MARINE,CNRS,URA 1363,BP 80,F-62930 WIMEREUX,FRANCE								19							Oceanography	WOS:A1997XC24200009		
J	Smales, LR; Cribb, TH								Helminth parasite communities of the water-rat, Hydromys chrysogaster, from Queensland								WILDLIFE RESEARCH				24	4			445	457		10.1071/WR96074			1997	1997	The helminth fauna from 124 water-rats, Hydromys chrysogaster, collected from 33 localities in Queensland was analysed. A total of 45 species of helminths was found, comprising 2 acanthocephalans, 2 cestodes, 13 nematodes and 28 trematodes. The helminth community of the water-rats in the region north of latitude 18 degrees (far north) was different from that of water-rats south of 18 degrees (central); Sorensen's Index 45.8% similarity, whereas Holmes and Podesta's Index gave 32.1% similarity. Comparisons with data from water-rats from southern and Tasmanian regions showed that they were different from each other and from both Queensland regions. The helminth communities were characterised by high diversity, dominated by trematodes in the central and Tasmanian regions, but with nematodes becoming more prominent in the far northern and southern regions. No core or secondary species were found in the Queensland helminth communities, the southern community was suggestive of a bimodal distribution and the Tasmanian had two core species. A checklist of helminth species occurring in water-rats from eastern Australia is provided.		UNIV QUEENSLAND, DEPT PARASITOL, ST LUCIA, QLD 4072, AUSTRALIA; [Smales, LR] UNIV CENT QUEENSLAND, DEPT BIOL, ROCKHAMPTON, QLD 4702, AUSTRALIA								20							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:A1997XV04800006		
J	TAYE, AC								ALPINE VASCULAR FLORA OF THE TUSHAR MOUNTAINS, UTAH								GREAT BASIN NATURALIST				55	3			225	236					JUL 1995	1995	The Tushar Mountains of southwestern Utah rise to a maximum elevation of 3709 m, with tinlberline and krummholz reaching maximum elevations of 3438 m and 3566 m, respectively. Voucher specimens were collected from the alpine region during eight field seasons to inventory this largely unknown alpine flora. Listed are 171 vascular plant species from 102 genera and 34 families that occur in eight types of plant communities within an alpine area of about 19.3 km(3). The seven largest families are Asteraceae (29 species), Poaceae (20), Brassicaceae (13), Rosaceae (12), Cyperaceae (11), Carpophyllaceae (10), and Fabaceae (8). Thirteen species are restricted to the alpine area. The perennial herb growth form accounts for 86.4% of the flora, 5.9% of the species are shrubs, and the remaining species are annuals to short-lived perennials. Bedrock in the alpine region is entirely of Tertiary igneous origin. Vegetation cover and species richness are highest on an andesite ash-flow tuff and latite flow and lowest on hydrothermally altered inter-caldera rhyolites and tuffs. Forty-four species (26.0% of the indigenous flora) also occur in the Arctic, and 13 species are at a southern margin of distribution. Eight taxa (4.7% of the nora) are local or regional endemics. The majority of the alpine species appear to have migrated to the range by way of the contiguous mountain system to the north; statistical comparison with neighboring alpine floras shows the flora to be most similar to the floras of the Wasatch Mountains, Uinta Mountains, and Teton Range, with Sorensen's similarity indices of 52.8, 50.2, and 48.8% respectively.										3							Ecology	WOS:A1995RL52600004		
J	MOLINA, L; ZAMORA, OA; ZAMORA, JA								POLYCHAETES (ANNELIDA-POLYCHAETA) OF ESTERO-DE-JALTEPEQUE, EL-SALVADOR - COMPARISON 1959-1991								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				43	1-3			195	205					APR-DEC 1995	1995	A survey of the intertidal polychaete fauna of the Jaltepeque estuary, Pacific coast of El Salvador (13 degrees N - 89 degrees W), was conducted during December of 1990 (dry season) and July of 1991 (rainy season). A total of 15 stations were sampled along the estuary, and 15 core samples (core area: 17.7 cm(2)) collected at each one, to a depth of 15 cm into the sediment. Samples were preserved in 10% formalin in sea water stained with Pose Bengal. A 500 micron mesh sieve was used to separate the organisms from the sediments. A total of 450 core samples yielded 5315 polychaetes distributed among 30 species. Densities ranged between 111 and 22 296 per m(2), with a mean of about 6 500. The salinity gradient along the axis of the estuary ranged between 14 and 30 parts per thousand during the rainy season, and from 22 to 30 parts per thousand during the dry season. This gradient is smaller than that observed (0 to 31 parts per thousand) in a polychaete survey conducted over, a one year period, at the site in the late 1950's. A comparison of the polychaete species found in both studies only yielded 28% similarity (Sorensen's index), even though samples were collected at nearly the same stations. Although the durations of both studies differ considerably, we expected to find more species in common. The total number of species collected in both studies was, however, very similar (30 and 36). Data presented in this paper provide evidence to support the hypothesis that the polychaete fauna in the Jaltepeque estuary is presently composed of more eurihaline species than in the past. The Jaltepeque estuary region has undergone considerable development over recent decades, but a direct impact on its benthic fauna is difficult to assess. That this fauna was studied in the late 1950's as well as in this paper, provides a unique reference framework, very rare in benthic tropical research, for future more complex surveys.		[MOLINA, L] UNIV EL SALVADOR,FAC CIENCIAS NAT & MATEMAT,ESCUELA BIOL,SAN SALVADOR,EL SALVADOR								3							Biology	WOS:A1995TB99500018		
J	KAPPELLE, M; KENNIS, PAF; DEVRIES, RAJ								CHANGES IN DIVERSITY ALONG A SUCCESSIONAL GRADIENT IN A COSTA-RICAN UPPER MONTANE QUERCUS FOREST								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				4	1			10	34		10.1007/BF00115312			FEB 1995	1995	Changes in terrestrial vascular plant diversity along a successional gradient were studied in a Costa Rican upper montane Quercus forest. In 1991 and 1992 species presence and cover were recorded in 12 successional 0.1 ha forest plots. A total of 176 species in 122 genera and 75 families were found. Asteraceae was the most speciose family. With the help of TWINSPAN three successional phases were classified: (i) Early Secondary Forest (ESF, 145 spp.), (ii) Late Secondary Forest (LSF, 130 spp.) and (iii) Primary Forest (PF, 96 spp,). Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) species ordination using DECORANA illustrates that different ecological species groups can be distinguished along the time sequence. Alpha diversity (Shannon-Wiener index, among others) in ESF and LSF was significantly greater than in PF. This is probably explained by downslope migration of numerous sub(alpine) species to cleared and recently abandoned montane sites. Beta diversity applying Sorensen's similarity coefficients declined during succession. Using linear regression, the minimum time required for floristic recovery following disturbance and abandonment was calculated at 65.9 years. A comparison with other studies shows that secondary forests in upper montane Costa Rica can be as diverse as in neotropical lowlands.		[KAPPELLE, M] UNIV AMSTERDAM,HUGO DE VRIES LAB,KRUISLAAN 318,1098 SM AMSTERDAM,NETHERLANDS								41							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:A1995QL63400002		
J	BLADES, DCA; MARSHALL, SA								TERRESTRIAL ARTHROPODS OF CANADIAN PEATLANDS - SYNOPSIS OF PAN TRAP COLLECTIONS AT 4 SOUTHERN ONTARIO PEATLANDS								MEMOIRS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF CANADA					169			221	284					DEC 1994	1994	This report is a synopsis of the terrestrial arthropod faunas collected from four peatlands in southern Ontario.  The peatlands surveyed were the Wylde Lake bog (43-degrees-55'N, 80-degrees-30'W), Crieff fen (43-degrees-25'N, 80-degrees-07'W), Oliver bog (43-degrees-20'N, 80-degrees-16'W), and the Wainfleet bog (42-degrees-55'N, 79-degrees-17'W).  Arthropods were collected in yellow pan traps (aluminum pan traps at Wainfleet) during the period May 1987 to June 1988 (including the period of snow cover from December to March).  A total of 33 029 specimens were removed from the pan trap samples and of these 17 173 individuals were assigned to species.  Between 603 and 870 species of arthropods were identified from each site.  Collections from each site were compared using taxonomic and ecological groupings (based on feeding behaviour and habitat preference) of species.  Sorensen's Index of Similarity was used to compare the overlap of species among sites.  The Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera, and Araneae were the most species-rich orders collected at each site.  More species preferring peatlands were collected at each of the three undisturbed peatlands (Wylde L., Crieff, and Oliver) than at the mined bog, Wainfleet.  Species not usually associated with peatlands were more numerous in the Wainfleet collection than in collections from the undisturbed sites.  It is concluded that grouping of species by habitat preference is a useful technique for assessing habitat disturbance.		UNIV GUELPH,DEPT ENVIRONM BIOL,GUELPH,ON N1G 2W1,CANADA								5							Entomology	WOS:A1994QC66800015		
J	GIRARDIDEIRO, AM; DAMOTA, AF; GONCALVES, JON								EFFECT OF CUTTING SHRUB PLANTS ON HERBACEOUS VEGETATION OF SERRA DO SUDESTE, RS, BRAZIL								PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA BRASILEIRA				29	12			1823	1832					DEC 1994	1994	The vegetation of Serra do Sudeste in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, is formed by Subtropical Shrub Forest associated to grassland. Cutting and burning shrub plants have been used by farmers to increase or maintain these available grassland areas for grazing. This paper shows results about herbaceous vegetation changes caused by cutting shrub plants. The cover percentage of all species, mulch and soil, using permanent plots were measured. The soil fertility and the productivity of herbaceous plants were evaluated. It was possible to identify 130 species in cutting areas (CA) from which 31 Gramineae, nine Leguminosae and 90 of various others families. A noticeable floristical similarity among the succession vegetation stage (Sorensen's Index > 60%) of CA was verified. These vegetation stages showed a trend of being more similar to neighborly grazing areas (AP) than to forest herbaceous vegetation (AM). CA showed greater floristical richness and available forage than AM and AP.		[GIRARDIDEIRO, AM] EMBRAPA,CTR PESQUISA PECUARIA CAMPOS SUL BRASILEIROS,CP 242,BR-96400970 BAGE,RS,BRAZIL								4							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:A1994QZ95100003		
J	DONALDSON, PL; CLAVIJO, IE								DIET OF ROUND SCAD (DECAPTERUS-PUNCTATUS) ON A NATURAL AND AN ARTIFICIAL REEF IN ONSLOW BAY, NORTH-CAROLINA								BULLETIN OF MARINE SCIENCE				55	2-3			501	509					SEP 1994	1994	Round scad (Decapterus punctatus) were collected (N = 185) from reefs located 8 km off the southeastern coast of North Carolina in innershelf waters. The objectives of this study were to compare the diet of D. punctatus from an artificial and a natural reef in Onslow Bay, North Carolina and to determine if demersal zooplankton comprise a significant portion of their total diet. Of the 180 fish containing food, holozooplankton, not demersal zooplankton was the major prey group. Demersal zooplankton and benthic prey items were present in small numbers and volumes. Sorensen's index of community similarity showed prey items were 81% similar between fish collected from the artificial and natural reefs.		UNIV N CAROLINA,DEPT BIOL SCI,WILMINGTON,NC 28403; [DONALDSON, PL] UNIV CONNECTICUT,NATL UNDERSEA RES CTR,AVERY POINT CAMPUS,GROTON,CT 06340, USA								10							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:A1994QB58400021		
J	KUMAR, BM; GEORGE, SJ; CHINNAMANI, S								DIVERSITY, STRUCTURE AND STANDING STOCK OF WOOD IN THE HOMEGARDENS OF KERALA IN PENINSULAR INDIA								AGROFORESTRY SYSTEMS				25	3			243	262					MAR 1994	1994	A survey was conducted in 17 selected thaluks (revenue sub-divisions) of Kerala state to elucidate the floristic structure, composition and the extent of similarities and diversities in the composition of homegardens of Kerala, with particular reference to small (below 0.4 ha), medium (0.4 to 2 ha) and large (> 2.0 ha) holding size categories. Besides attempts were also made to characterize the potential of homegardens to supply commercial timber and fuelwood. Two hundred and fifty two farmers were selected through a stratified random process. In addition to gathering general information on crop and livestock production enterprises, all scattered trees and shrubs (greater-than-or-equal-to 15 cm girth at breast height) on the homestead and border trees except palms and rubber were enumerated. There was tremendous variability both in the number of trees and shrubs present and species diversity of the selected homesteads in different provinces. The small, medium and large sized holdings also exhibited profound variability in the number of woody taxa and individuals present. In total, 127 woody species (Girth at Breast Height (GBH) greater-than-or-equal-to 15 cm) were encountered. The mean number of woody taxa found in the homegardens ranged from 11 for Pathanapuram to 39 in Perinthalmanna. Floristic diversity was higher in the smaller homesteads. It decreased with increasing the size of holdings. Mean Simpson's diversity index for the homesteads ranged from 0.251 (Kochi) to 0.739 (Kottarakkara) suggesting that floristic diversity of homegardens was moderate to low compared to a value over 0.90 for the species-rich evergreen forests of the Western Ghats. The Sorensen's similarity indexes suggested a moderately high degree of similarity for the different tree species encountered in the homesteads of Kerala. No clear cut planting pattern was discernible in the homegardens of Kerala. The homegarden trees and shrubs were either scattered throughout the homestead or on farm boundaries. Farmers tend to prefer timber trees such as ailanthus (highest frequency) and teak besides fruit trees such as mango, jack, cashew and the like. Major homegarden species were represented in all diameter classes. The diameter structure, however, exhibited a slightly skewed (+) distribution pattern, having the highest frequency in the 20-30 cm classes ensuring adequate regeneration status and in that process making homegardens a sustainable as well as dynamic land use system. Standing stock of timber and firewood in the homestead of different thaluks are presented. Average commercial standing stock of homesteads ranged from 6.6 to 50.8 m3 ha-1 and fuel wood volume was of the order of 23 to 86 m3 ha-1. Implicit in the high commercial timber volume and fuel wood volume is that a substantial proportion of the society's wood demands are met from the homesteads. Palms, however, constituted the dominant component of standing commercial timber and fuel wood volumes accounting as much as 63% and 72%, respectively, of the total wood in these categories.		[KUMAR, BM] KERALA AGR UNIV,ALL INDIA COORDINATED RES PROJECT AGROFORESTRY,THRISSUR 680654,INDIA								75							Agronomy; Forestry	WOS:A1994NQ64500006		
J	POPOLIZIO, CA; GOETZ, H; CHAPMAN, PL								SHORT-TERM RESPONSE OF RIPARIAN VEGETATION TO 4 GRAZING TREATMENTS								JOURNAL OF RANGE MANAGEMENT				47	1			48	53		10.2307/4002840			JAN 1994	1994	The Sheep Creek watershed of northcentral Colorado provided an ideal site to collect baseline trend data and to estimate foliar cover responses of montane riparian vegetation. Percent relative cover data were compared with Sorensen's similarity index and were analyzed with a 2-stage nested analysis of variance (ANOVA) to assess differences among 4 grazing treatments: long-term grazing (G), protection from livestock grazing since 1956 (P), recent protection following long-term grazing (P88), and recent livestock grazing following protection (G88). This study utilized 3 replications of each treatment. Data were collected in August 1988, June 1989, and August 1989, employing permanent and randomly placed transects and plots. When percent foliar cover means were paired using Sorensen's similarity index, long-term grazing and short-term grazing treatments were least similar in August 1988. Long-term protection and short-term grazing were most similar in June 1989. Average percent cover of bare ground, common dandelion (Taraxacum officinale Wiggers), white Dutch clover (Trifolium repens L.), and legumes grouped as lifeforms were significantly different among treatments, with long-term grazing being significantly different from long-term protection. Average sedge and forb cover was least affected. However, responses of individual sedge species varied with treatments. Average percent grass cover increased under short-term protection after a history of long-term grazing. Short-term grazing stimulated foliar cover of forbs, grasses, and sedges after more than 30 years of cattle exclusion.		COLORADO STATE UNIV,DEPT RANGELAND ECOSYSTEM SCI,FT COLLINS,CO 80523; COLORADO STATE UNIV,DEPT STAT,FT COLLINS,CO 80523; [POPOLIZIO, CA] COLORADO STATE UNIV,CTR ECOL MANAGEMENT MIL LANDS,DEPT RANGELAND ECOSYSTEM SCI,FT COLLINS,CO 80523, USA								27							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science; Ecology	WOS:A1994MR52700010		
J	FRASE, BA; SERA, WE								COMPARISON BETWEEN PLANT-SPECIES IN BUSHY-TAILED WOODRAT MIDDENS AND IN THE HABITAT								GREAT BASIN NATURALIST				53	4			373	378					DEC 1993	1993	Bushy-tailed woodrats (Neotoma cinerea) collect vegetation and store it in middens. We asked to what extent plant species collected by woodrats reflect the array of species growing in the habitat. Species composition of plant clippings at 20 bushy-tailed woodrat middens in central Colorado was compared to vegetation growing within 30 m of the dens. Amount of overlap between midden and habitat species was low (28-49%) when all taxa were included; however, if only woody taxa were considered, overlap was 71-89%. Sorensen's Index of Similarity exhibited a like pattern; the index increased markedly if only woody tara were included. Only one plant species not found within 30 m of a den occurred in significant amounts in the middens. Bushy-tailed woodrats collected a wide array of species but were more selective the greater the habitat plant diversity. Results of this and ether studies indicate that the concordance between midden contents and habitat vegetation decreases with increasing habitat plant diversity. Ancient woodrat middens are nonetheless useful to paleontologists seeking to reconstruct past vegetation associations since woody vegetation is well represented in middens.		[FRASE, BA] BRADLEY UNIV,DEPT BIOL,PEORIA,IL 61625, USA								11							Ecology	WOS:A1993MT14100007		
J	ALASSIUTY, AIM; BAYOUMI, BM; KHALIL, MA; VANSTRAALEN, NM								THE INFLUENCE OF VEGETATIONAL TYPE ON SEASONAL ABUNDANCE AND SPECIES COMPOSITION OF SOIL FAUNA AT DIFFERENT LOCALITIES IN EGYPT								PEDOBIOLOGIA				37	4			210	222					JUL 1993	1993	A comparative study has been made to investigate the influence of vegetational types on seasonal abundance and species composition of soil fauna at two different Governorates in Egypt, one bordering the Nile river, the other situated within the northern part of the Nile delta, close to the Mediterranean sea. The samples were taken each month from two different vegetational types (banana plantation and orange plantation) in each of the two studied areas for one year. Fauna extracted was pooled into four categories: oribatid mites, other Acari, Collembola and other fauna. Analysis of variance was applied for statistical analysis of the data. Community composition was determined throughout the period of study using the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity and Sorensen's quotient of similarity. The obtained results revealed that species diversity was similar among different vegetational types at the same sites and dissimilar between the same vegetational types at different sites. The monthly fluctuations of the total number of oribatid mites showed a gradual increase in orange orchards and a gradual decrease in banana orchards. Other Acari showed no significant differences in relation to site, vegetational types, time and the interactions among them. collembola revealed a significant difference between sites only and there was no obvious relationship between collembolan communities and vegetational types. From the results it may be concluded that Oribatida as a group are influenced by vegetational type more than by geographical locations, while the reverse is true for Collembola.		TANTA UNIV,FAC SCI,DEPT ZOOL,TANTA,EGYPT; FREE UNIV AMSTERDAM,DEPT ECOL & ECOTOXICOL,1081 HV AMSTERDAM,NETHERLANDS								13							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:A1993LR22000002		
J	BATTEGAZZORE, M; PETERSEN, RC; MORETTI, G; ROSSARO, B								AN EVALUATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL-QUALITY OF THE RIVER PO USING BENTHIC MACROINVERTEBRATES								ARCHIV FUR HYDROBIOLOGIE				125	2			175	206					AUG 1992	1992	A comprehensive sampling by means of multi-plate artificial substrates and analysis of the macroinvertebrate benthic community was undertaken at monthly intervals during 1989-1990 in the lower section of the Po River at Pontelagoscuro, near the city of Ferrara. This was followed by a second study of the benthic community in June/July 1990 at 10 stations along the Po extending from above the city of Torino at Villafranca Piemonte to Pontelagoscuro. When possible, taxonomy was determined to the species level, with special emphasis placed on the Chironomidae and Hydropsychidae. A total of 131 species were identified. In the monthly study at Pontelagoscuro, species richness ranged from 10 (Dec. 88) to 35 (Aug. 89) with abundances dominated by Echinogammarus veneris, various species of Dipterans, and Hydropsyche bulgaromanorum. In the longitudinal study, species richness varied from a low of 15 at Valenza Po to a high of 29 at Somaglia, and abundance was dominated by various Dipterans, Echinogammarus veneris, Asellus aquaticus, Bithynia tentaculata and Erpobdella testacea (the latter three species being particularly dominant below the Lambro River confluence). Using SORENSEN'S Quotient of Similarity, the River Po stations could be placed into a potamon cluster consisting of most of the downstream stations. This group was distinctly different from the group of the upper stations, and from the station directly below the point of entry of the Lambro River. The differences in species composition and the various indices of community diversity and biological integrity all suggest that the River Lambro is a major source (and perhaps the principal single source) of disturbance along the river Po.		UNIV PARMA,IST ECOL,I-43100 PARMA,ITALY; UNIV LUND,INST LIMNOL,BENTH ECOL GRP,S-22100 LUND,SWEDEN; FAC SCI PERUGIA,IST ZOL,I-06100 PERUGIA,ITALY; UNIV LAQUILA,DIPARTIMENTO SCI AMBIENTALI,I-67100 LAQUILA,ITALY								14							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1992JM47300004		
J	BUCHELE, DE; BASKIN, JM; BASKIN, CC								ECOLOGY OF THE ENDANGERED SPECIES SOLIDAGO-SHORTII .5. PLANT ASSOCIATES								BULLETIN OF THE TORREY BOTANICAL CLUB				119	2			208	213		10.2307/2997032			APR-JUN 1992	1992	A list of the plant associates of Solidago shortii at each of its 13 population sites was compiled, and population site number 1, where > 50% of the total number of stems of this federal endangered species occur, was sampled by the quadrat method.  Of the 228 plant taxa at the 13 population sites, 112 were present at 1-20% of the sites, and only 12 were present at 81-100% of the sites.  Community coefficients (Sorensen's similarity index) based on species presence ranged from only 10% to 66% among the 78 pairwise comparisons of the 13 sites, and floristic similarities between each of three sites and the other 12 were 40% or less.  Thus, Solidago shortii does not occur with a coherent group of species.  Furthermore, most of its associates are common and geographically widespread, and 50 are non-native.  Solidago shortii is the only federal-listed species at the 13 population sites, and only two of its associates, Gentiana flavida and Spiranthes magnicamporum, are endangered or threatened in Kentucky.  Fifty-four percent of the 228 taxa at the 13 sites are hemicryptophytes, and 94.6% have the C3 carbon fixation pathway.  Population site number 1 is not dominated by one or a few species, and 27 of the 123 taxa in the 113 m2 quadrats accounted for 71% of the importance value.  Eighty-six species had a frequency of 1-20%, and none had a frequency 81-100%.		UNIV KENTUCKY,SCH BIOL SCI,LEXINGTON,KY 40506								9							Plant Sciences	WOS:A1992JA04400010		
J	GRELSSON, G; NILSSON, C								VEGETATION AND SEED-BANK RELATIONSHIPS ON A LAKESHORE								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				26	2			199	207		10.1111/j.1365-2427.1991.tb01729.x			OCT 1991	1991	1.  Possible convergence in species richness and species composition between the (standing) vegetation and soil seed bank was studied along gradients of wave exposure, estimated as soil organic matter content, on five levels of a shore of a river-lake in northern Sweden. 2.  Species with seeds having little natural ability to float were most common in the vegetation, whereas species with seeds capable of prolonged floating were most abundant in the seed bank.  Species richness in the vegetation and seed bank varied with wave exposure in the same way.  Species richness decreased with exposure in both communities at the upper three levels but did not vary with exposure at the lower levels. 3.  Floristic similarity between the vegetation and seed bank was 0.25 (Sorensen's index of similarity) for the entire flora.  The variation in floristic similarity between communities did not differ between levels.  Floristic similarity per sample plot increased with wave exposure.		[GRELSSON, G] UMEA UNIV,DEPT ECOL BOT,S-90187 UMEA,SWEDEN								42							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1991GQ11500005		
J	ANDERSON, RS; VANDEVENDER, TR								COMPARISON OF POLLEN AND MACROFOSSILS IN PACKRAT (NEOTOMA) MIDDENS - A CHRONOLOGICAL SEQUENCE FROM THE WATERMAN MOUNTAINS OF SOUTHERN ARIZONA, USA								REVIEW OF PALAEOBOTANY AND PALYNOLOGY				68	1-2			1	28					APR 26 1991	1991	Pollen percentages in moss polsters and soil samples were compared with percent plant cover along 30-m transcets in desertscrub vegetation, Waterman Mountains Arizona, in the northeastern Sonoran Desert.  These data were used to interpret pollen assemblages and associated plant macrofossils from 14 packrat (Neotoma sp.) middens radiocarbon dated from 1320 to 22,450 yr B.P. A macrofossil:pollen index (MPI) was used to compare the presence and relative abundances of pollen and macrofossils in midden samples.  In general, pollen and macrofossils from Sonoran Desert middens reflect similar vegetation signals.  Calculation of Sorensen's Similarity Index (SI) comparing the presence or absence of midden pollen and macrofossils indicates greater similarities for Sonoran desertscrub than pinyon-juniper woodland.  SI values from the Waterman series are greater for all age samples, compared to samples from other desert locations, perhaps reflecting greater species richness and summer rainfall in the northeastern Sonoran Desert. The pollen and macrofossil assemblages reflect a middle and late Wisconsin (22,450-ca. 11,500 yr B.P.) pinyon-juniper woodland with sagebrush and Joshua tree on limestone slopes.  A transitional early Holocene juniper woodland/chaparral was replaced by 8900 yr B.P. by a mesic Sonoran desertscrub of saguaro, catclaw acacia, blue paloverde and velvet mesquite.  The presence of the latter three on exposed rocky locations, now restricted mostly to riparian washes, indicates moister conditions during the middle Holocene than today.  Essentially modern vegetation developed by ca. 4000 yr B.P.  Changes over the last ca. 1300 years suggest that modern climate is the most xeric in the entire record.		ARIZONA SONORA DESERT MUSEUM,TUCSON,AZ 85743; NO ARIZONA UNIV,BILBY RES CTR,ENVIRONM SCI PROGRAM,FLAGSTAFF,AZ 86011; [ANDERSON, RS] NO ARIZONA UNIV,BILBY RES CTR,QUATERNARY STUDIES PROGRAM,FLAGSTAFF,AZ 86011, USA								38							Plant Sciences; Paleontology	WOS:A1991FN35300001		
J	BALIK, V								THE EFFECT OF THE ROAD TRAFFIC POLLUTION ON THE COMMUNITIES OF TESTATE AMEBAS (RHIZOPODA, TESTACEA) IN WARSAW (POLAND)								ACTA PROTOZOOLOGICA				30	1			5	11					1991	1991	The analysis of the coenological characteristics of the testacean communities from soil in 10 localities with different level of the road traffic pollution in the urban agglomeration of Warsaw (Poland) was carried out in September 1989.  The differences of these characteristics between damaged and undamaged localities were found.  These differences was shown in the abundance, the number of species, the species composition, the index of species diversity, and the index of equitability.  These parameters on the domaged localities were lower than on the undamaged ones.  Further results evaluated on the basis of Sorensen's index of faunistical similarity, cluster and ordination analyses confirmed the differences of testate amoebae communities on the domaged and undamaged localities.  The effect of the road traffic on the testacean communities were therefore negative.		[BALIK, V] TSCHECHOSLOWAK AKAD WISSENSCH,INST BODENBIOL,SADKACH 7,CS-37007 CESKE BUDEJOVICE,CZECHOSLOVAKIA								17							Microbiology	WOS:A1991FY18800002		
J	HUBALEK, Z								COMPARISON OF BIRD COMMUNITIES IN THE NATURAL FOCI OF TICK-BORNE VIRUS-INFECTIONS								FOLIA ZOOLOGICA				39	4			325	339					1990	1990	Belt transect method was used for estimating the population density of birds in two natural foci of infections with tick-borne encephalitis and Bhanja viruses: in Silica Plateau (SP) of the Slovakian Karst in Czechoslovakia and in the Emine-Balkans (EB) in Bulgaria. The total length of the transect in forest habitats (F) was 27.0 km (SPF) and 27.4 km (EBF), in open habitats (O) 41.2 km (SPO) and 51.6 km (EBO). The total number of bird species registered in the sections investigated was 79 in SP and 78 in EB. The mean density of bird population in SPF was 509, in SPO 334, in EBF 285 and in EBO 178 pairs/km2, thus substantially higher in SP than in EB and in F habitats than in O habitats. On the other hand, in O habitats species diversity was considerably higher than in F habitats. The specific structure of bird communities inhabiting the individual habitat groups was compared using three similarity indices (Sorensen's, Renkonen's and the newly-suggested index of mean community difference), which exhibited distinct correlation between communities inhabiting open habitats (SPO and EBO) and somewhat smaller correlation between those inhabiting forest habitats (SPF, EBF). The author also analyzed the communities according to morphometric and ecological bird groups and evaluated the role of birds as hosts of ticks - vectors of the two viruses in natural foci.		[HUBALEK, Z] CZECHOSLOVAK ACAD SCI, INST SYSTEMAT & ECOL BIOL, KVETNA 8, CS-60365 BRNO, CZECH REPUBLIC								0							Zoology	WOS:A1990EW03700005		
