PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	Gill, Brian A.; Allen, Daniel C.; Mims, Meryl C.; Neeson, Thomas M.; Ruhi, Albert; Atkinson, Carla L.; Shogren, Arial J.; Apgar, Travis M.; Compson, Zacchaeus G.; Cook, Stephen; Trumbo, Daryl R.; Busch, Michelle H.; Hollien, Kelsey D.; Leathers, Kyle; Malish, Megan C.; OMalley, Grace L.; Silknetter, Samuel; Smith, Chelsea R.; Dunleavy, Howard; Bogan, Michael T.								Combined benthic and stream edge sampling better represent macroinvertebrate assemblages than benthic sampling alone along an aridity gradient								LIMNOLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY-METHODS											10.1002/lom3.10601				2024	Studies of stream macroinvertebrates traditionally use sampling methods that target benthic habitats. These methods could underestimate biodiversity if important assemblage components exist outside of the benthic zone. To test the efficacy of different sampling methods, we collected paired reach-wide benthic and edge samples from up to 10 study reaches in nine basins spanning an aridity gradient across the United States. Edge sampling targeted riparian-adjacent microhabitats not typically sampled, including submerged vegetation, roots, and overhanging banks. We compared observed richness, asymptotic richness, and assemblage dissimilarity between benthic samples alone and different combinations of benthic and edge samples to determine the magnitude of increased diversity and assemblage dissimilarity values with the addition of edge sampling. We also examined how differences in richness and assemblage composition varied across an aridity gradient. The addition of edge sampling significantly increased observed richness (median increase = 29%) and asymptotic richness (median increase = 173%). Similarly, median Bray-Curtis dissimilarity values increased by as much as 0.178 when benthic and edge samples were combined. Differences in richness metrics were generally higher in arid basins, but assemblage dissimilarity either increased or decreased across the aridity gradient depending on how benthic and edge samples were combined. Our results suggest that studies that do not sample stream edges may significantly underestimate reach diversity and misrepresent assemblage compositions, with effects that can vary across climates. We urge researchers to carefully consider sampling methods in field studies spanning climatic zones and the comparability of existing data sets when conducting data synthesis studies.		[Gill, Brian A.; Hollien, Kelsey D.; Bogan, Michael T.] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Allen, Daniel C.] Penn State Univ, Dept Ecosyst Sci & Management, University Pk, PA USA; [Mims, Meryl C.; Trumbo, Daryl R.; OMalley, Grace L.; Silknetter, Samuel; Dunleavy, Howard] Dept Biol Sci, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA USA; [Neeson, Thomas M.; Malish, Megan C.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Geog & Environm Sustainabil, Norman, OK USA; [Ruhi, Albert; Apgar, Travis M.; Leathers, Kyle] Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Environm Sci Policy & Management, Berkeley, CA USA; [Atkinson, Carla L.; Shogren, Arial J.; Smith, Chelsea R.] Univ Alabama, Dept Biol Sci, Tuscaloosa, AL USA; [Compson, Zacchaeus G.] Univ North Texas, Adv Environm Res Inst, Dept Biol Sci, Denton, TX USA; [Cook, Stephen; Busch, Michelle H.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Biol, Norman, OK USA; [Gill, Brian A.] Univ Arizona, Sch Nat Resources & Environm, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA								0							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:001162668400001		
J	Lo, Tak Tsun; Van Lissa, Caspar J.; Verhagen, Maaike; Hoemann, Katie; Erbas, Yasemin; Maciejewski, Dominique F.								A Theory-Informed Emotion Regulation Variability Index: Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity								EMOTION											10.1037/emo0001344				2024	Emotion regulation (ER) variability refers to how individuals vary their use of ER strategies across time. It helps individuals to meet contextual needs, underscoring its importance in well-being. The theoretical foundation of ER variability recognizes two constituent processes: strategy switching (e.g., moving from distraction to social sharing) and endorsement change (e.g., decreasing the intensity of both distraction and social sharing). ER variability is commonly operationalized as the SD between strategies per observation (between-strategy SD) or within a strategy across time (within-strategy SD). In this article, we show that these SD-based approaches cannot sufficiently capture strategy switching and endorsement change, leading to ER variability indices with poor validity. We propose Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, a measure used in ecology to quantify biodiversity variability, as a theory-informed ER variability index. First, we demonstrate how Bray-Curtis dissimilarity is more sensitive than SD-based approaches in detecting ER variability through two simulation studies. Second, assuming that higher ER variability is adaptive in daily life, we test the relation between ER variability and negative affect in three experience sampling method data sets (total N = [70, 95, 200], number of moment-level observations = [5,040, 6,329, 14,098]). At both the moment level and person level, higher Bray-Curtis dissimilarity predicted lower negative affect more consistently than SD-based indices. We conclude that Bray-Curtis dissimilarity may better capture moment-level within-person ER variability and could have implications for studying variability in other multivariate dynamic processes. The article is accompanied by an R tutorial and practical recommendations for using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity with experience sampling method data.		[Lo, Tak Tsun; Verhagen, Maaike] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Dept Dev Psychopathol, Postbus 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands; [Van Lissa, Caspar J.] Tilburg Univ, Dept Methodol & Stat, Tilburg, Netherlands; [Hoemann, Katie; Erbas, Yasemin] Fac Psychol & Educ Sci, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; [Erbas, Yasemin; Maciejewski, Dominique F.] Tilburg Univ, Sch Social & Behav Sci, Tilburg, Netherlands; [Lo, Tak Tsun] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Behav Sci Inst, Dept Dev Psychopathol, Postbus 9104, NL-6500 HE Nijmegen, Netherlands								0							Psychology, Experimental	WOS:001162469200001		
J	Vasiljevs, Stanislavs; Witney, Adam A.; Baines, Deborah L.								The presence of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes modifies the sputum microbiome in cystic fibrosis disease								AMERICAN JOURNAL OF PHYSIOLOGY-LUNG CELLULAR AND MOLECULAR PHYSIOLOGY				326	2			L125	L134		10.1152/ajplung.00219.2023			FEB 12 2024	2024	Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) affects 40%-50% of adults with CF and is associated with a decline in respiratory health. The microbial flora of the lung is known to change with the development of CF disease, but how CFRD affects the microbiome has not been described. We analyzed the microbiome in sputa from 14 people with CF, 14 with CFRD, and two who were classed as pre-CFRD by extracting DNA and amplifying the variable V3-V4 region of the microbial 16S ribosomal RNA gene by PCR. Sequences were analyzed and sources were identified to genus level. We found that the alpha-diversity of the microbiome using Shannon's diversity index was increased in CFRD compared with CF. Bray Curtis dissimilarity analysis showed that there was separation of the microbiomes in CF and CFRD sputa. The most abundant phyla identified in the sputum samples were Firmicutes and Proteobacteria, Actinobacteriota and Bacteroidota, and the ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidota was reduced in CFRD compared with CF. Pseudomonas, Azhorizophilus, Porphyromonas, and Actinobacillus were more abundant in CFRD compared with CF, whereas Staphylococcus was less abundant. The relative abundance of these genera did not correlate with age; some correlated with a decline in FEV1/FVC but all correlated with hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) indicating that development of CFRD mediates further changes to the respiratory microbiome in CF. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is associated with a decline in respiratory health. We show for the first time that there was a change in the sputum microbiome of people with CFRD compared with CF that correlated with markers of raised blood glucose.		[Vasiljevs, Stanislavs; Witney, Adam A.; Baines, Deborah L.] St Georges Univ London, Inst Infect & Immun, London, England; [Vasiljevs, Stanislavs] St Georges Univ London, Inst Infect & Immun, London, England								0							Physiology; Respiratory System	WOS:001159862200005		
J	Tapilatu, Yosmina; Fauzan, Ihsan; Pradipta, Ariel; Kusuma, Ali Budhi								A first report on prokaryotic diversity in northwestern Arafura deep-sea sediments, Indonesia								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				14	1					895	10.1038/s41598-024-51614-6			JAN 9 2024	2024	Indonesia's deep-sea microbial communities remain poorly understood, prompting the need for comprehensive investigations. This study aimed to assess the bacterial and archaeal diversities in northwestern Arafura deep-sea sediments, spanning depths of 100 to 1,457 m using a 16S rRNA based-metagenomic sequencing approach, without technical and biological replicates. Principal component analyses based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index indicated that most of the bacterial and archaeal communities were habitat-specific and influenced by depth. The most prevalent known bacterial phylotypes were detected from all samples belonging to the phylum of Desulfobacteriota, Pseudomonadota, and Firmicutes. In addition, the samples also harbored diverse members of the Archaea domain, including Crenarchaeota, Nanoarchaeota and Haloarchaeota. Notably, the sequencing data revealed the significant presence of rare prokaryotic taxa, including uncultured counterparts with less than 1% abundance. The findings suggest that novel and rare prokaryotic taxa are abundant in northwestern Arafura deep-sea ecosystem, offering unique opportunities for further bioprospecting and functional ecology studies.		[Tapilatu, Yosmina] Natl Res & Innovat Agcy PRLD BRIN, Marine Microbiol & Biotechnol Lab, Ctr Deep Sea Res, Jl Y Syaranamual Guru Guru Poka, Ambon 97233, Indonesia; [Fauzan, Ihsan; Pradipta, Ariel] Genomik Solidaritas Indonesia GSI Lab Inc, Sci Dept, Jl Sultan Agung 29, South Jakarta, Indonesia; [Kusuma, Ali Budhi] Sumbawa Univ Technol UTS, Fac Life Sci & Technol, Indonesian Ctr Extremophile Bioresources & Biotech, Jln Raya Olat Maras, Desa Batu Alang 84371, Moyo Hulu Sumba, Indonesia; [Tapilatu, Yosmina] Natl Res & Innovat Agcy PRLD BRIN, Marine Microbiol & Biotechnol Lab, Ctr Deep Sea Res, Jl Y Syaranamual Guru Guru Poka, Ambon 97233, Indonesia								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001139656300068		
J	Zhao, Juan; Cheng, Yanli; Jiang, Nan; Qiao, Guanghang; Qin, Wentao								Rhizosphere-associated soil microbiome variability in <i>Verticillium</i> wilt-affected <i>Cotinus coggygria</i>								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				14						1279096	10.3389/fmicb.2023.1279096			JAN 5 2024	2024	Introduction: Verticillium wilt is the most devastating soil-borne disease affecting Cotinus coggygria in the progress of urban landscape construction in China. Methods: To assess the variability of the rhizosphere-associated soil microbiome in response to Verticillium wilt occurrence, we investigated the microbial diversity, taxonomic composition, biomarker species, and co-occurrence network of the rhizosphere-associated soil in Verticillium wilt-affected C. coggygria using Illumina sequencing. Results: The alpha diversity indices of the rhizosphere bacteria in Verticillium wilt-affected plants showed no significant variability compared with those in healthy plants, except for a moderate increase in the Shannon and Invsimpson indices, while the fungal alpha diversity indices were significantly decreased. The abundance of certain dominant or crucial microbial taxa, such as Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Streptomyces, and Trichoderma, displayed significant variations among different soil samples. The bacterial and fungal community structures exhibited distinct variability, as evidenced by the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices. Co-occurrence networks unveiled intricate interactions within the microbial community of Verticillium wilt-affected C. coggygria, with greater edge numbers and higher network density. The phenomenon was more evident in the fungal community, showing increased positive interaction, which may be associated with the aggravation of Verticillium wilt with the aid of Fusarium. The proportions of bacteria involved in membrane transport and second metabolite biosynthesis functions were significantly enriched in the diseased rhizosphere soil samples. Discussion: These findings suggested that healthy C. coggygria harbored an obviously higher abundance of beneficial microbial consortia, such as Bacillus, while Verticillium wilt-affected plants may recruit antagonistic members such as Streptomyces in response to Verticillium dahliae infection. This study provides a theoretical basis for understanding the soil micro-ecological mechanism of Verticillium wilt occurrence, which may be helpful in the prevention and control of the disease in C. coggygria from the microbiome perspective.		[Zhao, Juan; Cheng, Yanli; Jiang, Nan; Qiao, Guanghang; Qin, Wentao] Beijing Acad Agr & Forestry Sci, Inst Plant Protect, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Juan; Qiao, Guanghang; Qin, Wentao] Beijing Acad Agr & Forestry Sci, Beijing Key Lab Environm Friendly Management Fruit, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Yanli] Yangtze Univ, Coll Life Sci, Jingzhou, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Nan] Inner Mongolia Agr Univ, Coll Hort & Plant Protect, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, Peoples R China; [Qin, Wentao] Beijing Acad Agr & Forestry Sci, Inst Plant Protect, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Qin, Wentao] Beijing Acad Agr & Forestry Sci, Beijing Key Lab Environm Friendly Management Fruit, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Microbiology	WOS:001145374100001		
J	Stefanidis, Apostolis; Zografou, Konstantina; Tzortzakaki, Olga; Kati, Vassiliki								Orthoptera Community Dynamics and Conservation in a Natura 2000 Site (Greece): The Role of Beta Diversity								DIVERSITY-BASEL				16	1					11	10.3390/d16010011			JAN 2024	2024	Greece is a European hotspot for Orthoptera (378 species), yet it has been scarcely explored. We investigated the diversity patterns of Orthoptera and the ecological mechanisms shaping them by sampling 15 sites (30 plots of 1ha) across five habitats in Mount Mitsikeli, a Natura 2000 site. The mountain is deemed rich (0.4 species/km2), hosting 34 species, including a species of European interest (Paracaloptenus caloptenoides). The grassy openings in the beech-fir forest and rural mosaics were found to be important habitats for Orthoptera, while the mountain grasslands were poorer but hosted a greater abundance of grasshoppers. The three main environmental factors shaping diversity patterns (with an explained variance of 51.34%) were grass height, the cover of woody vegetation and the cover of bare ground. Beta diversity was high (with a Bray-Curtis of index 0.45 among habitats). Species turnover prevailed among all sites and within agricultural land, beech-fir forest and Mediterranean scrub, while nested patterns prevailed within mountain grasslands and mixed thermophilous forest. Conservation actions should target sites in ecosystems driven by species turnover, but primarily the most species-rich sites are driven by nestedness. Such actions should include the implementation of biodiversity-inclusive grazing schemes to hamper forest encroachment and the restoration of mountain grassland quality from cattle overgrazing.		[Stefanidis, Apostolis; Zografou, Konstantina; Tzortzakaki, Olga; Kati, Vassiliki] Univ Ioannina, Dept Biol Applicat & Technol, Biodivers Conservat Lab, Ioannina Univ Campus, Ioannina 45110, Greece; [Kati, Vassiliki] Univ Ioannina, Dept Biol Applicat & Technol, Biodivers Conservat Lab, Ioannina Univ Campus, Ioannina 45110, Greece								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:001149430600001		
J	Anwar, Iwan Pramesti; Putri, Mutiara Rachmat; Setiawan, Agus; Tarya, Ayi; Mandang, Idris; Nurfitri, Suliskania; Purnaningtyas, Dayu Wiyati								Assessment of Phytoplankton Community and Diversity Dynamics on the Neap Tide in Balikpapan Bay, East Kalimantan, Indonesia								POLISH JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES				33	1			77	88		10.15244/pjoes/168107			2024	2024	This study aimed to describe the correlation between water quality, phytoplankton abundance, and diversity in Balikpapan Bay, where the Indonesian government plans to move the national capital city. Observations were made at eight stations to collect data on water quality and phytoplankton during the neap tide. Phytoplankton were found in nine species during floods and thirteen during ebb tides. The most dominant species was Cyclotella sp., with the most prevalent class being Bacillariophyceae (diatoms). Phytoplankton diversity is considered a low category with an index of diversity (H ') average of 1.08 +/- 0.35 (1.02 +/- 0.53) during flood (ebb) tides, and generally, there are no dominant species. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index showed that species similarities were approximately 96.50% (93.25%) during flood (ebb) tides. Principal component analysis (PCA) results showed that the downstream area was influenced by salinity and current speed, whereas the upstream region was influenced by chlorophyll-a, temperature, nitrate, and turbidity. This situation also shows that phytoplankton diversity (H ') is affected more by salinity, turbidity, current speed, and chlorophyll-a. At the same time, the index of dominance (C) was influenced by temperature, current speed, and chlorophyll-a content. Thus, dynamic conditions should be considered as factors influencing the phytoplankton abundance and dynamics in Balikpapan Bay.		[Anwar, Iwan Pramesti; Putri, Mutiara Rachmat; Tarya, Ayi] Inst Teknol Bandung, Fac Earth Sci & Technol, Earth Sci Study Program, Jalan Ganesha 10, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia; [Putri, Mutiara Rachmat; Tarya, Ayi; Nurfitri, Suliskania; Purnaningtyas, Dayu Wiyati] Inst Teknol Bandung, Fac Earth Sci & Technol, Oceanog Res Grp, Jalan Ganesha 10, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia; [Setiawan, Agus] Natl Res & Innovat Agcy, Res Ctr Deep Sea, Jalan Pasir Putih Raya 1, Jakarta 14430, Indonesia; [Mandang, Idris] Mulawarman Univ, Dept Phys, Jalan Barong Tongkok 4, Samarinda, East Kalimantan, Indonesia; [Purnaningtyas, Dayu Wiyati] Korea Inst Ocean Sci & Technol KIOST, Marine Ecosyst & Biol Res Ctr, 385 Haeyang Ro, Busan 49111, South Korea; [Anwar, Iwan Pramesti; Putri, Mutiara Rachmat] Inst Teknol Bandung, Fac Earth Sci & Technol, Earth Sci Study Program, Jalan Ganesha 10, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia; [Putri, Mutiara Rachmat] Inst Teknol Bandung, Fac Earth Sci & Technol, Oceanog Res Grp, Jalan Ganesha 10, Bandung 40132, West Java, Indonesia								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001129069800039		
J	Gonzalez-Ortegon, Enrique; de Carvalho-Souza, Gustavo F.; Vilas, Cesar; Baldo, Francisco; Cuesta, Jose A.								Trends in the decapod crustacean community at the southernmost estuary of the Atlantic coast of Europe								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				13	1					22857	10.1038/s41598-023-50049-9			DEC 21 2023	2023	Climate change may enhance the establishment of introduced species, as well as the poleward shift in distribution of numerous species over decades. Long-term research and monitoring of an ecosystem at the southernmost point of the Atlantic coast of Europe should be an important priority in order to detect and understand trends in species composition and the related environmental changes. The Guadalquivir estuary (South West Spain) is more likely to suffer the exacerbated effects of climate change due to its location in the Mediterranean-climate zone. The long-term data set between 1997 and 2006 has allowed us to analyse the variability of the natural and anthropogenic stressors. The mean interannual dissimilarity of the estuarine fauna (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index) has showed important differences throughout the years, and the species that most contributed to these differences were the exotic species capable of completing their life cycles. This long-term monitoring of the estuarine community has allowed us to anticipate future events and ecological risk assessment in European waters.		[Gonzalez-Ortegon, Enrique; de Carvalho-Souza, Gustavo F.; Cuesta, Jose A.] Spanish Natl Res Council ICMAN CSIC, Inst Marine Sci Andalusia, Puerto Real, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ortegon, Enrique; Vilas, Cesar; Cuesta, Jose A.] CSIC, Andalusian Inst Agr & Fisheries Res & Training IFA, Associate Res Unit Blue Growth, Cadiz, Spain; [de Carvalho-Souza, Gustavo F.] Univ Cadiz, Inst Univ Invest Marina INMAR, Dept Fis Aplicada, Campus Excelencia Int Global Mar CEIMAR, Puerto Real 11519, Cadiz, Spain; [Vilas, Cesar] Inst Invest & Formac Agr Pesquera IFAPA, Ctr El Toruno, Camino Tiro Pichon S-N, El Puerto De Santa Maria 11500, Spain; [Baldo, Francisco] Spanish Inst Oceanog, CO Cadiz IEO CSIC, Cadiz 11006, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ortegon, Enrique] Spanish Natl Res Council ICMAN CSIC, Inst Marine Sci Andalusia, Puerto Real, Spain; [Gonzalez-Ortegon, Enrique] CSIC, Andalusian Inst Agr & Fisheries Res & Training IFA, Associate Res Unit Blue Growth, Cadiz, Spain								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001136279200084		
J	Carratala, Anna; Chappelier, Coralie; Selmoni, Oliver; Guillaume, Annie S.; Chmiel, Hannah E.; Pasche, Natacha; Weil, Charlotte; Kohn, Tamar; Joost, Stephane								Vertical distribution and seasonal dynamics of planktonic cyanobacteria communities in a water column of deep mesotrophic Lake Geneva								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				14						1295193	10.3389/fmicb.2023.1295193			DEC 15 2023	2023	Background: Temperate subalpine lakes recovering from eutrophication in central Europe are experiencing harmful blooms due to the proliferation of Planktothrix rubescens, a potentially toxic cyanobacteria. To optimize the management of cyanobacteria blooms there is the need to better comprehend the combination of factors influencing the diversity and dominance of cyanobacteria and their impact on the lake's ecology. The goal of this study was to characterize the diversity and seasonal dynamics of cyanobacteria communities found in a water column of Lake Geneva, as well as the associated changes on bacterioplankton abundance and composition.Methods: We used 16S rRNA amplicon high throughput sequencing on more than 200 water samples collected from surface to 100 meters deep monthly over 18 months. Bacterioplankton abundance was determined by quantitative PCR and PICRUSt predictions were used to explore the functional pathways present in the community and to calculate functional diversity indices.Results: The obtained results confirmed that the most dominant cyanobacteria in Lake Geneva during autumn and winter was Planktothrix (corresponding to P. rubescens). Our data also showed an unexpectedly high relative abundance of picocyanobacterial genus Cyanobium, particularly during summertime. Multidimensional scaling of Bray Curtis dissimilarity revealed that the dominance of P. rubescens was coincident with a shift in the bacterioplankton community composition and a significant decline in bacterioplankton abundance, as well as a temporary reduction in the taxonomic and PICRUSt2 predicted functional diversity.Conclusion: Overall, this study expands our fundamental understanding of the seasonal dynamics of cyanobacteria communities along a vertical column in Lake Geneva and the ecology of P. rubescens, ultimately contributing to improve our preparedness against the potential occurrence of toxic blooms in the largest lake of western Europe.		[Carratala, Anna; Chappelier, Coralie; Kohn, Tamar] Ecole Polytech Fed Lausanne EPFL, Environm Chem Lab, ENAC, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Selmoni, Oliver] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Embryol, Dept Plant Biol, Washington, DC USA; [Selmoni, Oliver; Guillaume, Annie S.; Joost, Stephane] Ecole Polytech Fed Lausanne EPFL, ENAC Fac, Lab Biol Geochem LGB, Geospatial Mol Epidemiol Grp GEOME, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Chmiel, Hannah E.] Univ Kaiserslautern Landau, Inst Environm Sci iES, Eusserthal Ecosyst Res Stn EERES, Landau, Germany; [Chmiel, Hannah E.; Pasche, Natacha] Ecole Polytech Fed Lausanne EPFL, Limnol Ctr, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Weil, Charlotte] Ecole Polytech Fed Lausanne EPFL, ENAC IT4R, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Carratala, Anna] Ecole Polytech Fed Lausanne EPFL, Environm Chem Lab, ENAC, Lausanne, Switzerland								0							Microbiology	WOS:001133618000001		
J	Martinez-Sanz, Javier; Talavera-Rodriguez, Alba; Diaz-Alvarez, Jorge; Rosas Cancio-Suarez, Marta; Rodriguez, Juan Miguel; Alba, Claudio; Montes, Maria Luisa; Martin-Mateos, Rosa; Burgos-Santamaria, Diego; Moreno, Santiago; Serrano-Villar, Sergio; Sanchez-Conde, Matilde								A gut microbiome signature for HIV and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease								FRONTIERS IN IMMUNOLOGY				14						1297378	10.3389/fimmu.2023.1297378			DEC 14 2023	2023	Introduction: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), has emerged as an increasingly recognized problem among people living with HIV (PLWH). The gut-liver axis is considered to be strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of MASLD. We aimed to characterize the gut microbiota composition in PLWH and MASLD and compare it with that of two control groups: PLWH without MASLD and individuals with MASLD without HIV infection.Methods: We collected clinical data and stool samples from participants. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes were amplified, sequenced, and clustered into operational taxonomic unit. Alpha diversity was studied by Shannon and Simpson indexes. To study how different the gut microbiota composition is between the different groups, beta diversity estimation was evaluated by principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. To further analyze differences in microbiome composition we performed a linear discriminant analysis (LDA) effect size (LEfSe).Results: We included 30 HIV(+)MASLD(+), 30 HIV(+)MASLD(-) and 20 HIV(-)MASLD(+) participants. Major butyrate producers, including Faecalibacterium, Ruminococcus, and Lachnospira dominated the microbiota in all three groups. Shannon's and Simpson's diversity metrics were higher among MASLD(+) individuals (Kruskal-Wallis p = 0.047). Beta diversity analysis showed distinct clustering in MASLD(-), with MASLD(+) participants overlapping regardless of HIV status (ADONIS significance <0.001). MASLD was associated with increased homogeneity across individuals, in contrast to that observed in the HIV+NAFDL- group, in which the dispersion was higher (Permanova test, p value <0.001; ANOSIM, p value <0.001). MASLD but not HIV determined a different microbiota structure (HIV+MASLD- vs. HIV(+)MASLD(+), q-value = 0.002; HIV(-)MASLD(+) vs. HIV(+)MASLD(+), q-value = 0.930; and HIV(-)MASLD(+) vs. HIV(+)MASLD(-), q-value < 0.001). The most abundant genera in MASLD- were Prevotella, Bacteroides, Dialister, Acidaminococcos, Alloprevotella, and Catenibacterium. In contrast, the most enriched genera in MASLD+ were Ruminococcus, Streptococcus, Holdemanella, Blautia, and Lactobacillus.Conclusions: We found a microbiome signature linked to MASLD, which had a greater influence on the overall structure of the gut microbiota than HIV status alone.		[Martinez-Sanz, Javier; Talavera-Rodriguez, Alba; Diaz-Alvarez, Jorge; Rosas Cancio-Suarez, Marta; Moreno, Santiago; Serrano-Villar, Sergio; Sanchez-Conde, Matilde] Hosp Univ Ramon Y Cajal, Dept Infect Dis, Inst Ramon Y Cajal Invest Sanitaria IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez-Sanz, Javier; Talavera-Rodriguez, Alba; Rosas Cancio-Suarez, Marta; Moreno, Santiago; Serrano-Villar, Sergio; Sanchez-Conde, Matilde] Inst Salud Carlos III, CIBER Enfermedades Infecciosas CIBERINFEC, Madrid, Spain; [Talavera-Rodriguez, Alba] Univ Complutense Madrid UCM, Madrid, Spain; [Rodriguez, Juan Miguel; Alba, Claudio] Univ Complutense Madrid, Dept Nutr & Food Sci, Madrid, Spain; [Montes, Maria Luisa] Hosp Univ La Paz, Internal Med Serv, HIV Unit, Madrid, Spain; [Martin-Mateos, Rosa; Burgos-Santamaria, Diego] Hosp Univ Ramon Y Cajal, Dept Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Metab Liver Dis Clin, Inst Ramon Y Cajal Invest Sanitaria IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez-Sanz, Javier; Sanchez-Conde, Matilde] Hosp Univ Ramon Y Cajal, Dept Infect Dis, Inst Ramon Y Cajal Invest Sanitaria IRYCIS, Madrid, Spain; [Martinez-Sanz, Javier; Sanchez-Conde, Matilde] Inst Salud Carlos III, CIBER Enfermedades Infecciosas CIBERINFEC, Madrid, Spain								0							Immunology	WOS:001133140100001		
J	Hardersen, S.; La Porta, G.								Never underestimate biodiversity: how undersampling affects Bray-Curtis similarity estimates and a possible countermeasure								EUROPEAN ZOOLOGICAL JOURNAL				90	2			660	672		10.1080/24750263.2023.2249007			DEC 11 2023	2023	The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity is widely used to calculate beta diversity on abundance data. However, the effect of undersampling on this index has received limited attention and only few studies addressed this topic. The paper aimed to investigate the error introduced by undersampling and its correlation to the similarity of the complete datasets, proposing a possible countermeasure, which is based on the addition of dummy species. To evaluate the performance of this proposed approach, we applied a meta-analytic technique based on repeated and random subsamples of 16 datasets on published biological assemblage data. We estimated the effect of undersampling on the resulting similarities and we compared the results with the adjusted version of the index resulted from the addition of extra species, also called dummy species, to the original abundance dataset. Undersampling generally resulted in poor accuracy and led to underestimates of assemblage similarities. The addition of dummy species resulted in a decrease in the severity of underestimations. To reach an accuracy >80% in similarity, more than 300 individuals needed to be randomly sampled and the under - and over-estimation rates decreased consistently by the addition of dummy species. Additionally, we found that the more similar two assemblages were, the more likely similarities were underestimated and this tendency was more severe at low sample sizes. Our simulation indicated that datasets which contain more than 300 individuals provided reliable estimates of similarities and that the addition of one to three dummy species to the abundance matrices was a good choice to reduce underestimates and increase accuracy.		[Hardersen, S.] Ctr Nazl Carabinieri Biodivers Bosco Fontana, Reparto Carabinieri Biodivers Verona, Marmirolo, MN, Italy; [La Porta, G.] Univ Perugia, Dipartimento Chim Biol & Biotecnol, Via Elce di Sotto 8, I-06123 Perugia, PG, Italy; [La Porta, G.] Univ Perugia, Dipartimento Chim Biol & Biotecnol, Via Elce di Sotto 8, I-06123 Perugia, PG, Italy								0							Zoology	WOS:001067984300001		
J	Zhou, Ting; Han, Wei; Ning, Kun; Zhou, Yanwei; Zhang, Donglin; El-Kassaby, Yousry A.; Xinran, Chong; Zhang, Fan; Chen, Fangyu; Chen, Hong								Spatial and temporal dynamics of carnation-scented flowers in<i> Lagerstroemia</i> 'Ning Xiang 3′								INDUSTRIAL CROPS AND PRODUCTS				208						117864	10.1016/j.indcrop.2023.117864			FEB 2024	2024	Floral scent is an essential attribute for plant reproduction and ornamental plant industry. In Lagerstroemia genus, taxa with distinct fragrances are rare, thus limiting their economic value. Using headspace solid-phase micro-extraction (HS-SPME) coupled with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) (HS-SPME-GC-MS), floral scent components of L. 'Ning Xiang 3 ' (a fragrant cultivar blooming with pinkish-white petals) in different flowering periods, floral organs, and day-night times were measured. Overall, 67 volatiles were putatively detected at five flowering periods and the primary compound type was benzenoids/phenylpropanoids (P2: 50.75%; P3: 47.33%). Eugenol (clove odor) and geraniol (rose odor) were considered as the most characteristic scent compounds, leading to the carnation-scented attribute of L. 'Ning Xiang 3 ' flowers. Based on floral organ's specific analysis, we found that the composition of the whole flowers most resembled that of petals (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index 0.48), indicating that the petals contributed conclusively to the floral scent. Additionally, the scent release dynamics observed in day-night times showed consistent variation (increasing first and then decreasing) with that in different flowering periods, suggesting that the early-blooming period (cool morning at 6:00-7:00 am) represents the peak period for L. 'Ning Xiang 3 ' floral fragrance production. The present study is expected to provide a theoretical and material foundation for the targeted breeding of Lagerstroemia fragrant germplasm, and promote the development of Lagerstroemia fragrance industry.		[Zhou, Ting; Zhou, Yanwei; Xinran, Chong; Zhang, Fan; Chen, Fangyu; Chen, Hong] Inst Bot, Jiangsu Prov & Chinese Acad Sci Nanjing Bot Garden, Jiangsu Key Lab Res & Utilizat Plant Resources, Nanjing 210014, Peoples R China; [Han, Wei] Jiangsu Acad Agr Sci, Dept Cent Lab, Nanjing 210014, Peoples R China; [Ning, Kun] Jinling Inst Technol, Coll Hort, Nanjing 210038, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Donglin] Univ Georgia, Dept Hort, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [El-Kassaby, Yousry A.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest & Conservat Sci, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Chen, Hong] Inst Bot, Jiangsu Prov & Chinese Acad Sci Nanjing Bot Garden, Jiangsu Key Lab Res & Utilizat Plant Resources, Nanjing 210014, Peoples R China								0							Agricultural Engineering; Agronomy	WOS:001132862800001		
J	Ma, Li; Niu, Wenquan; Li, Guochun; Du, Yadan; Sun, Jun; Zhang, Qian; Siddique, Kadambot H. M.								Crucial role of rare taxa in preserving bacterial community stability								LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT				35	4			1397	1410		10.1002/ldr.4994			FEB 28 2024	2024	Stable bacterial communities are essential for maintaining soil functions. However, the role of abundant and rare bacterial taxa in maintaining bacterial community stability remains controversial. To explore the relationship between abundant and rare taxa and bacterial community stability, we used high-throughput sequencing technology and molecular ecological networks to characterize the distribution of abundant and rare bacterial taxa under different nitrogen (N) fertilization rates (0, 150, 200, and 250 kg N hm-2). Our findings revealed that rare taxa had much higher Simpson's diversity index values than abundant taxa. Moreover, rare taxa Simpson's diversity decreased with increasing N application, while bacterial community differences (Bray-Curtis distance dissimilarity) increased (i.e., bacterial community stability decreased with increasing N application). The network topology showed that rare sub-communities had higher modularity and a greater proportion of positive links than abundant taxa. The rare bacterial Simpson's diversity was significantly and negatively correlated with bacterial community differences, no correlation occurred between abundant bacterial Simpson's diversity and bacterial community differences. This study underscores the importance of rare species in maintaining bacterial community stability. Consequently, when optimizing agricultural management practices to ensure the stability of bacterial communities and soil functions, it is crucial not only to concentrate consider the roles of abundant species involved in nutrient cycling but also to give greater consideration to the role of rare taxa.		[Ma, Li; Niu, Wenquan; Li, Guochun] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Soil & Water Conservat & Ecol Environm, Minist Educ, Yangling, Peoples R China; [Ma, Li; Niu, Wenquan; Li, Guochun] Chinese Acad Sci & Minist Water Resources, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Ma, Li; Niu, Wenquan; Li, Guochun] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Niu, Wenquan] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling, Peoples R China; [Du, Yadan; Sun, Jun; Zhang, Qian] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Water Resources & Architectural Engn, Yangling, Peoples R China; [Siddique, Kadambot H. M.] Univ Western Australia, UWA Inst Agr, Perth, WA, Australia; [Niu, Wenquan] Chinese Acad Sci & Minist Water Resources, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:001113488800001		
J	Enkossa, Tibebu; Nemomissa, Sileshi; Lemessa, Debissa								Effects of land use types and environmental factors on woody species diversity in agricultural landscapes of Jimma Ganati District, Western Oromia, Ethiopia								JOURNAL FOR NATURE CONSERVATION				77						126531	10.1016/j.jnc.2023.126531			JAN 2024	2024	Nowadays agricultural expansion and the concurrent climate variability jointly jeopardized global biodiversity in general and plant species diversity in particular. Assessing current diversity status of different land uses is a proxy for anticipating their individualistic resilience against future climatic variability. Here we explored woody species composition, diversity, distribution, and indicator species across five agricultural land uses. For this we employed a systematic sampling design to collect phytosociological attributes of woody plant species from 103 plots in four landscapes at a regular distance following transect lines. For comparative diversity analysis, we used linear mixed effects model using the lmer function and subsequently, post hoc pairwise comparisons with the emmeans function of R software. To visualize species composition dissimilarities between the land uses, we applied NMDS ordination based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and subsequently, adonis2 () function (R software) was used for testing its significance and pair-wise PERMANOVA analysis. Linear regression model and multiple regression model by Envfit function was used to test the effect of environmental topographic variables on the species distribution. The result indicated that, 104 woody plant species belonging to 52 families were collected, in which significant differences in species richness and composition among the five land use types were showed. The result reveal that, forest is with the most diversified species assemblage followed by home gardens. However, grazing land is the least in species diversity. Among topographic variables, elevation gradient shows significant influence on diversity and species compositional dissimilarity among the five agricultural land uses in which 38 species were significantly contributed to the dissimilarity of species composition. Species richness and woody stem abundance declines with increasing elevation. However, slope and aspect does not show significant effect on these attributes analysis. Indicator species assessment (IndVal.) showed that, 20 species were significantly (P <= 0.001) associated with at least one of the five land use classes in agricultural landscape. In sum, this study highlights that, changes in woody species diversity, composition and spatial patterns are the responses to types of land uses of varying disturbance intensities and topographic elevation as a proxy to different environmental factors.		[Enkossa, Tibebu; Nemomissa, Sileshi; Lemessa, Debissa] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Plant Biol & Biodivers Management, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Enkossa, Tibebu] Wollega Univ, Coll Agr, Dept Plant Sci, Nekemte, Ethiopia; [Enkossa, Tibebu] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Plant Biol & Biodivers Management, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:001129964800001		
J	Barbosa, Jessica A.; Aguirre, Juan C. P.; Nosach, Roman; Harding, John C. S.; Cantarelli, Vinicius S.; Costa, Matheus de O.								Characterization of the bacterial fecal microbiota composition of pigs preceding the clinical signs of swine dysentery								PLOS ONE				18	11					e0294273	10.1371/journal.pone.0294273			NOV 10 2023	2023	Swine dysentery (SD) is a worldwide production-limiting disease of growing-finishing pigs in commercial farms. The importance of the large intestinal microbiota in the swine dysentery pathogenesis has been established, but not well characterized. The objective of this study was to characterize the fecal bacterial microbiota of pigs immediately prior to developing clinical signs of swine dysentery. A total of 60 fecal samples were collected from 15 pigs with SD. Sampling times included a time point prior to SD (d0, n=15), 2 days before mucohaemorrhagic diarrhea was observed (d-2SD, n=15), 1 day before mucohaemorrhagic diarrhea was observed (d-1SD, n=15), and the day when pigs developed mucohemorragic diarrhea (MHD, n=15). Sequencing of cpn60 amplicons was used to profile the microbiome, and analyses were performed on QIIME2. Increased Chao1 index in d-1SD and MHD samples when compared to the d0 was the only change observed in alpha diversity. No differences between sampling times on beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) were found. Although a small sample size was investigated, differential abundance analysis revealed that Alistipes dispar and Parabacteroides gordonii were increased in MHD fecal samples when compared to d-2SD and d-1SD. It is suggested that these taxa may play a role in the pathogenesis of SD, which is known to require the presence of Brachyspira spp. and an anaerobe for severe disease development.		[Barbosa, Jessica A.; Cantarelli, Vinicius S.] Univ Fed Lavras, Anim Sci Dept, Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Barbosa, Jessica A.; Aguirre, Juan C. P.; Nosach, Roman; Harding, John C. S.; Costa, Matheus de O.] Univ Saskatchewan, Western Coll Vet Med, Dept Large Anim Clin Sci, Saskatoon, SK, Canada; [Costa, Matheus de O.] Univ Utrecht, Fac Vet Med, Dept Populat Hlth Sci, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Costa, Matheus de O.] Univ Saskatchewan, Western Coll Vet Med, Dept Large Anim Clin Sci, Saskatoon, SK, Canada; [Costa, Matheus de O.] Univ Utrecht, Fac Vet Med, Dept Populat Hlth Sci, Utrecht, Netherlands								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001124284600027		
J	Ceron, Milton Torres; Fujiwara, Masami; Martinez-Andrade, Fernando								Changes in species compositions of fish in the bays of the Northwestern Gulf of Mexico								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				10						1274771	10.3389/fmars.2023.1274771			OCT 25 2023	2023	IntroductionLocal biodiversity is increasing in many temperate and subtropical waters due to climate change. It is often caused by shifting fish distributions, thus the biodiversity gradient, from lower to higher latitudes. However, these shifts in distributions do not occur uniformly across all species. Consequently, communities are not only shifting their spatial distributions, but species compositions are also changing. We investigated spatiotemporal differences in the compositions of fish species in the bays of the northeastern Gulf of Mexico and identified species that contribute to the temporal changes.MethodsWe used fish count data collected using gillnets in eight major bays, encompassing over 600 km of coastline, during spring and fall seasons from 1982 to 2019. The nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index among species composition vectors was used to detect the differences in species composition, and the similarity percentages (SIMPER) were used to determine the contribution of species to the differences.ResultsThe result shows there was a gradual change in species composition in all bays over the years, and the composition was different among bays and seasons. The species contributing to the temporal changes included those that are expanding (e.g., Common snook, Centropomus undecimalis, and Smallscale fat snook, C. parallelus) as well as retracting (e.g., Southern flounder, Paralichthys lethostigma, and Spanish mackerel, Scomberomorus maculatus) their distributions toward the north. The species observed only in recent years in these bays tended to have a preference for warmer water (e.g., Gulf pipefish, Syngnathus scovelli, and Chain pipefish, S. louisiana).DiscussionThe results are consistent with the potential effects of climate change. However, the salinity of the bays in the study area generally exhibits an increasing trend from the northern to southern bays. The spatial salinity gradient has a substantial impact on species compositions, indicating that species distributions are influenced by multiple environmental conditions. This complexity makes our ability to accurately predict future species compositions under changing environmental conditions challenging.		[Ceron, Milton Torres; Fujiwara, Masami] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Ecol & Conservat Biol, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; [Ceron, Milton Torres] Texas A&M Univ, Ecol & Evolutionary Biol Interdisciplinary Program, College Stn, TX USA; [Martinez-Andrade, Fernando] Texas Parks & Wildlife Dept, Coastal Fisheries Div, Corpus Christi, TX USA; [Fujiwara, Masami] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Ecol & Conservat Biol, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								0							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001097640300001		
J	Henniger, Madison T.; Rowan, Troy N.; Beever, Jonathan E.; Mulon, Pierre-Yves; Smith, Joe S.; Voy, Brynn H.; Wells, Jim E.; Kuehn, Larry A.; Myer, Phillip R.								Validation of a minimally-invasive method for sampling epithelial-associated microorganisms on the rumen wall								FRONTIERS IN ANIMAL SCIENCE				4						1270550	10.3389/fanim.2023.1270550			OCT 13 2023	2023	The rumen microbiome provides approximately 70% of the required energy for the host by converting low-quality feedstuffs into usable energy for ruminants. The energy produced by the microorganisms is subsequently absorbed through the rumen epithelium and used towards growth and energy maintenance. There is evidence that ruminal epimural microbes directly interact with the rumen epithelium, acting as an intermediary communicator between the rumen liquid fraction and the host. Epimural microbiota have been demonstrated to be distinct from the ruminal liquid microbiome and perform unique roles within the rumen environment. However, methods to sample epimural communities from the rumen wall are limited and typically invasive, requiring animal fistulation or harvesting. To characterize the epimural communities present on the rumen wall, a novel and minimally-invasive surgical method was developed to swab the epithelium of the ventral sac of the rumen. The objective of this study was to validate this sampling method by comparing epimural and liquid fraction bacterial communities. During a 70-day feeding trial, Angus steers (n = 45) were sampled on day 35 using the novel surgery method and tubed on day 70 to sample rumen liquid content. Genomic DNA was used to generate amplicon libraries of the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene. There were no differences between alpha diversity indices when comparing rumen versus epimural bacterial communities (P > 0.05). The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was used to ordinate ASV counts, and then tested for differences between rumen and epimural communities using a PERMANOVA with 999 permutations (P < 0.05). Differential abundances of bacterial communities were tested using ANCOM-BC and MaAsLin2, where significance was determined by Q < 0.05 and overlap between both analysis methods. Within the 91 taxa that differed in abundance, 451 ASVs were found to be different between sample types (Q < 0.05). Unique ASVs associated with Prevotella, Succinivibrio, family-level Eubacterium, and family-level Succinivibrio were in greater abundance for the rumen epithelial-associated bacterial communities (Q < 0.05). The results demonstrate that the novel method of sampling from the rumen wall can capture differences between epimural and ruminal fluid bacterial communities, thus facilitating studies investigating the interactions between epimural bacteria with the host.		[Henniger, Madison T.; Rowan, Troy N.; Beever, Jonathan E.; Voy, Brynn H.; Myer, Phillip R.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Anim Sci, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Rowan, Troy N.; Beever, Jonathan E.; Mulon, Pierre-Yves; Smith, Joe S.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Large Anim Clin Sci, Knoxville, TN USA; [Rowan, Troy N.; Beever, Jonathan E.] Univ Tennessee, Genom Ctr Adv Agr, Inst Agr, Knoxville, TN USA; [Wells, Jim E.; Kuehn, Larry A.] USDA, US Meat Anim Res Ctr, Clay Ctr, NE USA; [Myer, Phillip R.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Anim Sci, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								0							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:001091723700001		
J	Barbosa, Carla; Tamayo-Leiva, Javier; Alcorta, Jaime; Salgado, Oscar; Daniele, Linda; Morata, Diego; Diez, Beatriz								Effects of hydrogeochemistry on the microbial ecology of terrestrial hot springs								MICROBIOLOGY SPECTRUM				11	5					e00249-23	10.1128/spectrum.00249-23			OCT 2023	2023	Temperature, pH, and hydrochemistry of terrestrial hot springs play a critical role in shaping thermal microbial communities. However, the interactions of biotic and abiotic factors at this terrestrial-aquatic interface are still not well understood on a global scale, and the question of how underground events influence microbial communities remains open. To answer this, 11 new samples obtained from the El Tatio geothermal field were analyzed by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing (V4 region), along with 191 samples from previous publications obtained from the Taupo Volcanic Zone, the Yellowstone Plateau Volcanic Field, and the Eastern Tibetan Plateau, with their temperature, pH, and major ion concentration. Microbial alpha diversity was lower in acid-sulfate waters, and no significant correlations were found with temperature. However, moderate correlations were observed between chemical parameters such as pH (mostly constrained to temperatures below 70 degrees C), SO42- and abundances of members of the phyla Armatimonadota, Deinococcota, Chloroflexota, Campilobacterota, and Thermoplasmatota. pH and SO42- gradients were explained by phase separation of sulfur-rich hydrothermal fluids and oxidation of reduced sulfur in the steam phase, which were identified as key processes shaping these communities. Ordination and permutational analysis of variance showed that temperature, pH, and major element hydrochemistry explain only 24% of the microbial community structure. Therefore, most of the variance remained unexplained, suggesting that other environmental or biotic factors are also involved and highlighting the environmental complexity of the ecosystem and its great potential to test niche theory ecological associated questions. IMPORTANCE This is the first approach to investigate whether geothermal processes could have an influence on the ecology of thermal microbial communities on a global scale. In addition to temperature and pH, microbial communities are structured by sulfate concentrations, which depends on the tectono-magmatic settings (such as the depth of magmatic chambers) and the local settings (such as the availability of a confining layer separating NaCl waters from steam after phase separation) and the possibility of mixing with more diluted fluids. Comparison of microbial communities from different geothermal areas by homogeneous sequence processing showed that no significant geographic distance decay was detected on the microbial communities according to Bray-Curtis, Jaccard, unweighted, and weighted Unifrac similarity/dissimilarity indices. Instead, an ancient potential divergence in the same taxonomic groups is suggested between globally distant thermal zones.		[Barbosa, Carla; Daniele, Linda; Morata, Diego] Univ Chile, Dept Geol, Santiago, Chile; [Barbosa, Carla; Daniele, Linda; Morata, Diego] Univ Chile, Andean Geothermal Ctr Excellence CEGA Fondap, Santiago, Chile; [Tamayo-Leiva, Javier; Alcorta, Jaime; Salgado, Oscar; Diez, Beatriz] Pontif Cathol Univ Chile, Dept Mol Genet & Microbiol, Santiago, Chile; [Tamayo-Leiva, Javier; Diez, Beatriz] Univ Chile, Ctr Climate & Resilience Res CR 2, Santiago, Chile; [Tamayo-Leiva, Javier; Alcorta, Jaime; Diez, Beatriz] Millennium Inst Ctr Genome Regulat CGR, Santiago, Chile; [Salgado, Oscar] Univ Adventista Chile, Fac Educ, Lab Bioinformat, Chillan, Chile; [Diez, Beatriz] Pontif Cathol Univ Chile, Dept Mol Genet & Microbiol, Santiago, Chile; [Diez, Beatriz] Univ Chile, Ctr Climate & Resilience Res CR 2, Santiago, Chile; [Diez, Beatriz] Millennium Inst Ctr Genome Regulat CGR, Santiago, Chile								0							Microbiology	WOS:001107303900011		
J	Ogawa, Akiko; Mizutani, Yukino; Tanaka, Reiji; Ochiai, Tatsuki; Ohashi, Ruu; Hirai, Nobumitsu; Suzuki, Masanori								Influence of Elution Characteristics of Steelmaking Slags on Major Bacterial Communities in Biofilms								COATINGS				13	9					1537	10.3390/coatings13091537			SEP 2023	2023	Steelmaking slags are prospective base materials for seaweed beds, resulting from a continuous process of biofouling, starting from biofilm formation and leading to growing algae. While focusing on biofilm formation, we investigated specific features of steelmaking slags when utilized as a base for seaweed beds by comparing the bacterial communities in marine biofilms between steelmaking slags and artificially produced ones. Genomic DNA was extracted from the biofilms collected on days 3 and 7, and partial 16S rRNA libraries were generated and sequenced by second-generation next-generation sequencing. The read sequences were analyzed using QIIME 2 (TM), then heatmaps and non-metric multidimensional scaling based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index in the R program. Rhodobacteraceae and Flavobacteriaceae were the most dominant family members in all samples on both days 3 and 7. However, Mariprofundus, comprising iron-oxidative bacteria, was predominantly detected in the samples of steelmaking slags on day 7. This suggested that the growth of Mariprofundus was dependent on Fe(II) ion concentration and that steelmaking slags eluted Fe(II) ions more easily than artificial slags. In contrast, Sulfurovaceae, sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, were dominantly present in all samples on day 3, but decreased by day 7, regardless of the sulfur content. It was supposed that engine oil-derived sulfur compounds strongly influenced Sulfurovaceae growth, whereas slag-derived sulfur compounds did not. Heatmap analysis indicated that the submersion period significantly influenced the bacterial communities, regardless of the differences in the main slag content ratios. Summarizing these results, the elution characteristics of steelmaking slags have the potential to influence the formation of marine biofilms, and this formation is significantly influenced by environmental conditions.		[Ogawa, Akiko; Ochiai, Tatsuki; Ohashi, Ruu; Hirai, Nobumitsu] Suzuka Coll, Natl Inst Technol KOSEN, Dept Chem & Biochem, Shiroko Cho, Suzuka, Mie 5100294, Japan; [Mizutani, Yukino; Tanaka, Reiji] Mie Univ, Grad Sch, Dept Life Sci, Marine Life Sci & Mol Chem, 1577 Kurimamachiya Cho, Tsu, Mie 5148507, Japan; [Mizutani, Yukino; Tanaka, Reiji] Mie Univ, Fac Bioresources, 1577 Kurimamachiya Cho, Tsu, Mie 5148507, Japan; [Suzuki, Masanori] Osaka Univ, Grad Sch Engn, Div Mat & Mfg Sci, 1-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 5650871, Japan; [Ogawa, Akiko] Suzuka Coll, Natl Inst Technol KOSEN, Dept Chem & Biochem, Shiroko Cho, Suzuka, Mie 5100294, Japan								0							Materials Science, Multidisciplinary; Materials Science, Coatings & Films; Physics, Applied	WOS:001135944400001		
J	Mercado-Gomez, Yarlenis L.; Mercado-Gomez, Jorge D.; Giraldo-Sanchez, Carlos E.								What Do Butterflies Tell Us about an Intermediate Disturbance in a Dry Tropical Forest Context?								DIVERSITY-BASEL				15	8					927	10.3390/d15080927			AUG 2023	2023	Montes de Maria is the best-preserved tropical dry forest fragment in the Colombian Caribbean, making it an ideal location for studying the impacts of human disturbance on local ecosystems. In this study, we analyzed the community structure of diurnal butterflies in both forested and disturbed areas using 16 circular plots to identify relationships between alpha and beta diversity, and the geographic distance between disturbed areas and native forests, using a range of metrics, including range-abundance and rarefaction curves, nonlinear models, and the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. The results revealed three distinct species assemblages associated with forests, intermediate disturbed areas (IDAs), and disturbed areas (DAs). Nonlinear models show that IDAs are more diverse than forests and DAs. However, forests have more beta diversity in plots than IDAs and DAs. Indicator species for each butterfly assemblage were also identified. Thus, although new butterfly species assemblages emerge from a new human landscape, it is clear that species that only occur within dry forest fragments are lost when forest fragments disappear. Overall, these findings have important implications for conservation efforts and understanding how human disturbance affects biodiversity in tropical ecosystems.		[Mercado-Gomez, Yarlenis L.] Univ Sucre, Lab Conservac Biol, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Carrera 28 5-267,Barrio Puerta Roja, Sincelejo 700001, Colombia; [Mercado-Gomez, Jorge D.] Univ Sucre, Dept Biol & Quim, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Carrera 28 5-267,Barrio Puerta Roja, Sincelejo 700001, Colombia; [Giraldo-Sanchez, Carlos E.] Univ Catolica Oriente, Fac Ciencias Agr, Grp Invest Sanidad Vegetal, Sect 3,Cra 46 40B 50, Rionegro 054048, Colombia; [Giraldo-Sanchez, Carlos E.] Univ Catolica Oriente, Fac Ciencias Agr, Grp Invest Sanidad Vegetal, Sect 3,Cra 46 40B 50, Rionegro 054048, Colombia								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:001055729200001		
J	Nisar, Muhammad Atif; Ross, Kirstin E.; Brown, Melissa H.; Bentham, Richard; Xi, James; Hinds, Jason; Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet								The composition of planktonic prokaryotic communities in a hospital building water system depends on both incoming water and flow dynamics								WATER RESEARCH				243						120363	10.1016/j.watres.2023.120363			SEP 1 2023	2023	In recent years, the frequency of nosocomial infections has increased. Hospital water systems support the growth of microbes, especially opportunistic premise plumbing pathogens. In this study, planktonic prokaryotic communities present in water samples taken from hospital showers and hand basins, collected over three different sampling phases, were characterized by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Significant differences in the abundance of various prokaryotic taxa were found through univariate and multivariate analysis. Overall, the prokaryotic communities of hospital water were taxonomically diverse and dominated by biofilm forming, corrosion causing, and potentially pathogenic bacteria. The phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteriota, Bacteroidota, Planctomycetota, Firmicutes, and Cyanobacteria made up 96% of the relative abundance. The & alpha;-diversity measurements of prokaryotic communities showed no difference in taxa evenness and richness based on sampling sites (shower or hand basins), sampling phases (months), and presence or absence of Vermamoeba vermiformis. However, & beta;-diversity measurements showed significant clustering of prokaryotic communities based on sampling phases, with the greatest difference observed between the samples collected in phase 1 vs phase 2/3. Importantly, significant difference was observed in prokaryotic communities based on flow dynamics of the incoming water. The Pielou's evenness diversity index revealed a significant difference (Kruskal Wallis, p < 0.05) and showed higher species richness in low flow regime (< 13 minutes water flushing per week and & LE; 765 flushing events per six months). Similarly, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index found significant differences (PERMANOVA, p < 0.05) in the prokaryotic communities of low vs medium/high flow regimes. Furthermore, linear discriminant analysis effect size showed that several biofilm forming (e.g., Pseudomonadales), corrosion causing (e.g., Desulfobacterales), extremely environmental stress resistant (e.g., Deinococcales), and potentially pathogenic (e.g., Pseudomonas) bacterial taxa were in higher amounts under low flow regime conditions. This study demonstrated that a hospital building water system consists of a complex microbiome that is shaped by incoming water quality and the building flow dynamics arising through usage.		[Nisar, Muhammad Atif; Ross, Kirstin E.; Brown, Melissa H.; Bentham, Richard; Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Sci & Engn, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Brown, Melissa H.; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, ARC Training Ctr Biofilm Res & Innovat, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Xi, James; Hinds, Jason] Enware Australia Pty Ltd, Caringbah, NSW, Australia; [Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Inst Nanosci & Technol, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Sci & Engn, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia								0							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001049490300001		
J	Zhao, Zhiyuan; Ma, Yanting; Zhang, Ai; Chen, Yumeng; Zheng, Zhaoxia; Zheng, Wei; Zhai, Bingnian								Response of apple orchard bacteria co-occurrence network pattern to long-term organic fertilizer input								APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY				191						105035	10.1016/j.apsoil.2023.105035			NOV 2023	2023	Organic fertilizer substitution is frequently used for increasing the apple yield and soil fertility. However, the effects of organic fertilizer substitution on soil microbial communities and their co-occurrence patterns in apple orchard are still unclear. In the present study, we investigated the soil bacterial communities in apple orchard after 12 years of different fertilization regimes. Soil samples were collected in the four major periods of apple tree growth under four fertilization strategies: no fertilization control (CK), organic fertilizer (M), chemical fertilizer (NPK), and partial substitution of chemical fertilizer with organic fertilizer (MNPK). The soil bacterial com-munity was significantly affected by the fertilization strategy (R2 = 0.22), growth period (R2 = 0.22), and their interactions (R2 = 0.28). The & alpha;-diversity (Shannon and Richness indexes) was generally stable in the budding and setting periods of apple tree, but the & alpha;-diversity indexes in the swelling and maturing periods were 7.05 % and 7.20 % lower for NPK and MNPK compared with CK and M, respectively. The dissimilarities of the bacterial communities determined based on the Bray-Curtis distances in different growth periods were greater in MNPK than CK, M, and NPK. Network analysis showed that connections between bacterial taxa were more frequent for MNPK, where the number of total links were 130.28 %, 56.86 % and 143.82 % higher than CK, M, and NPK, respectively. The percentage of positive interaction in NPKM was 81 %, which was higher than the other treatments. These results demonstrate that long-term organic fertilizer substitution made the bacterial com-munity more sensitive to environmental changes. More keystone species were detected in the network for MNPK (module and connector hubs = 18), and the complexity and connectivity of the bacterial network increased after long-term organic fertilizer substitution. More modules in the networks for M and MNPK had significant re-lationships with the soil DON, MBC, and SOC than those in the networks for CK and NPK, indicating that more bacteria in organic fertilizer treatments participated in the C and N turnover. Overall, long-term organic fertilizer substitution made the bacterial community more sensitive to environmental changes, and might stimulated the soil C and N cycles.		[Zhao, Zhiyuan; Ma, Yanting; Zhang, Ai; Chen, Yumeng; Zheng, Zhaoxia; Zheng, Wei; Zhai, Bingnian] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Nat Resources & Environm, South Campus ,3 Taicheng Rd, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Wei; Zhai, Bingnian] Minist Agr, Key Lab Plant Nutr & Agrienvironm Northwest China, Beijing 712100, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Bingnian] Northwest A&F Univ, Apple Expt Stn, Baishui 715600, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Wei; Zhai, Bingnian] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Nat Resources & Environm, South Campus ,3 Taicheng Rd, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Wei; Zhai, Bingnian] Minist Agr, Key Lab Plant Nutr & Agrienvironm Northwest China, Beijing 712100, Peoples R China; [Zhai, Bingnian] Northwest A&F Univ, Apple Expt Stn, Baishui 715600, Peoples R China								0							Soil Science	WOS:001029060600001		
J	Pereira, Andre Luiz Alves; de Carvalho, Priscilla; Granzotti, Rafaela Vendrametto; Vieira, Ludgero Cardoso Galli; Bini, Luis Mauricio								Temporal beta diversity increases with environmental variability in zooplankton floodplain communities								LIMNOLOGY				25	1			1	10		10.1007/s10201-023-00724-7			JAN 2024	2024	Temporal changes in community structure (temporal beta diversity) are expected to be driven by temporal environmental variation as different conditions may select for different sets of species. Here, we tested this hypothesis using a zooplankton dataset from the Araguaia River floodplain, Central Brazil. Data on zooplankton abundance and environmental variables (pH, water temperature, conductivity, turbidity, transparency, depth and concentrations of total phosphorus, total nitrogen, and chlorophyll-a) were collected at 30 sites in January (high water period) and July 2006 (low water period). For each site, we used the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity coefficient to measure temporal beta diversity (between January and July 2006), while the standardized Euclidean distance was used to calculate the temporal environmental variability. Then, we tested the hypothesis that temporal beta diversity would be higher in habitats that underwent larger variation in environmental conditions using a Pearson correlation analysis. We found a positive correlation between temporal beta diversity and environmental variability (r = 0.46; P = 0.043). Furthermore, we found that temporal beta diversity was mainly driven by an increase in zooplankton abundance between high and low water periods. Our results add to the increasing evidence that hydrological variation is key to understanding zooplankton community dynamics in floodplains. We suggest that future studies should search for correlates of temporal beta diversity (such as environmental variability) in other highly seasonal systems.		[Pereira, Andre Luiz Alves] Univ Fed Goias, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Evolucao, Ave Esperanca S-N,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, GO, Brazil; [de Carvalho, Priscilla; Bini, Luis Mauricio] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Ecol, Inst Ciencias Biol, Ave Esperanca S-N,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, GO, Brazil; [Granzotti, Rafaela Vendrametto] Univ Fed Goias, Programa DTI CNPq, INCT Ecol Evolucao & Conservacao Biodiversidade EE, Ave Esperanca S-N,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, GO, Brazil; [Vieira, Ludgero Cardoso Galli] Univ Brasilia, Campus Planaltina,Area Univ 1, BR-73345010 Planaltina, DF, Brazil; [Bini, Luis Mauricio] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Ecol, Inst Ciencias Biol, Ave Esperanca S-N,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, GO, Brazil								0							Limnology	WOS:001021376100001		
J	Wilson, Brooke C.; Derraik, Jose G. B.; Albert, Benjamin B.; Leong, Karen S. W.; Tweedie-Cullen, Ry Y.; Creagh, Christine; Depczynski, Marysia; Edwards, Taygen; Vatanen, Tommi; Thabrew, Hiran; Cutfield, Wayne S.; O'Sullivan, Justin M.								An open-label pilot trial of faecal microbiome transfer to restore the gut microbiome in anorexia nervosa: protocol								BMJ OPEN				13	7						10.1136/bmjopen-2022-070616			JUL 2023	2023	IntroductionIndividuals with anorexia nervosa (AN) harbour distinct gut microbiomes compared with healthy individuals, which are sufficient to induce weight loss and anxiety-like behaviours when transplanted into germ-free mice. We hypothesise that faecal microbiome transfer (FMT) from healthy donors would help restore the gut microbiome of individuals with AN, which in turn, may aid patient recovery. MethodsWe aim to conduct an open-label pilot study in 20 females aged 16-32 years in Auckland, New Zealand who meet the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fifth edition (DSM-5) criteria for AN and have a body mass index 13-19 kg/m(2). We will recruit four healthy, lean, female donors, aged 18-32 years, who will undergo extensive clinical screening prior to stool donation. Faecal microbiota will be harvested from donors and double encapsulated in delayed release, acid-resistant capsules. All participants will receive a single course of 20 FMT capsules (five from each donor) which they can choose to take over two or four consecutive days. Stool and blood samples will be collected from participants over a period of 3 months to assess their gut microbiome profile, metabolome, levels of intestinal inflammation and nutritional status. Our primary outcome is a shift in the gut microbiome composition at 3 weeks post-FMT (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity). We will also monitor participants' body composition (whole-body dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scans), eating disorder psychopathology, mental health and assess their views on, and tolerability of, treatment. All adverse events will be recorded and reviewed by an independent data monitoring committee. Ethics and disseminationEthics approval was provided by the Central Health and Disability Ethics Committee (Ministry of Health, New Zealand, 21/CEN/212). Results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented to both scientific and consumer group audiences.		[Wilson, Brooke C.; Derraik, Jose G. B.; Albert, Benjamin B.; Leong, Karen S. W.; Tweedie-Cullen, Ry Y.; Creagh, Christine; Depczynski, Marysia; Edwards, Taygen; Vatanen, Tommi; Cutfield, Wayne S.; O'Sullivan, Justin M.] Univ Auckland, Liggins Inst, Auckland, New Zealand; [Derraik, Jose G. B.] Univ Auckland, Fac Med & Hlth Sci, Dept Paediat Child & Youth Hlth, Auckland, New Zealand; [Vatanen, Tommi] Univ Helsinki, Helsinki Inst Life Sci, Helsinki, Finland; [Thabrew, Hiran] Univ Auckland, Dept Psychol Med, Auckland, New Zealand; [Thabrew, Hiran] Univ Auckland, Ctr Infant Child & Adolescent Mental Hlth, Te Ara Haro, Auckland, New Zealand; [O'Sullivan, Justin M.] Univ Auckland, Liggins Inst, Auckland, New Zealand								1							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:001034612700024		
J	Almeida, Diana Bastos; Semedo, Miguel; Magalhaes, Catarina; Blanquet, Isidro; Mucha, Ana Paula								Sole microbiome progression in a hatchery life cycle, from egg to juvenile								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				14						1188876	10.3389/fmicb.2023.1188876			JUN 26 2023	2023	Recirculating aquaculture systems (RAS) pose unique challenges in microbial community management since they rely on a stable community with key target groups, both in the RAS environment and in the host (in this case, Solea senegalensis). Our goal was to determine how much of the sole microbiome is inherited from the egg stage, and how much is acquired during the remainder of the sole life cycle in an aquaculture production batch, especially regarding potentially probiotic and pathogenic groups. Our work comprises sole tissue samples from 2 days before hatching and up to 146 days after hatching (-2 to 146 DAH), encompassing the egg, larval, weaning, and pre-ongrowing stages. Total DNA was isolated from the different sole tissues, as well as from live feed introduced in the first stages, and 16S rRNA gene was sequenced (V6-V8 region) using the Illumina MiSeq platform. The output was analysed with the DADA2 pipeline, and taxonomic attribution with SILVAngs version 138.1. Using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, both age and life cycle stage appeared to be drivers of bacterial community dissimilarity. To try to distinguish the inherited (present since the egg stage) from the acquired community (detected at later stages), different tissues were analysed at 49, 119 and 146 DAH (gill, intestine, fin and mucus). Only a few genera were inherited, but those that were inherited accompany the sole microbiome throughout the life cycle. Two genera of potentially probiotic bacteria (Bacillus and Enterococcus) were already present in the eggs, while others were acquired later, in particularly, forty days after live feed was introduced. The potentially pathogenic genera Tenacibaculum and Vibrio were inherited from the eggs, while Photobacterium and Mycobacterium seemed to be acquired at 49 and 119 DAH, respectively. Significant co-occurrence was found between Tenacibaculum and both Photobacterium and Vibrio. On the other hand, significantly negative correlations were detected between Vibrio and Streptococcus, Bacillus, Limosilactobacillus and Gardnerella. Our work reinforces the importance of life cycle studies, which can contribute to improve production husbandry strategies. However, we still need more information on this topic as repetition of patterns in different settings is essential to confirm our findings.		[Almeida, Diana Bastos] Univ Porto, ICBAS Inst Ciencias Biomed Abel Salazar, Porto, Portugal; [Almeida, Diana Bastos; Semedo, Miguel; Magalhaes, Catarina; Mucha, Ana Paula] Univ Porto, CIIMAR Interdisciplinary Ctr Marine & Environm Res, Matosinhos, Portugal; [Almeida, Diana Bastos; Blanquet, Isidro] SEA EIGHT Safiestela SA, Estela, Portugal; [Magalhaes, Catarina; Mucha, Ana Paula] Univ Porto, FCUP Fac Sci, Porto, Portugal; [Semedo, Miguel] Univ Porto, CIIMAR Interdisciplinary Ctr Marine & Environm Res, Matosinhos, Portugal								1							Microbiology	WOS:001022247800001		
J	Eberly, Jed O.; Wyffels, Samuel A.; Carlisle, Tanner J.; DelCurto, Timothy								Rumen microbiome response to sustained release mineral bolus supplement with low- and high-quality forages								FRONTIERS IN ANIMAL SCIENCE				4						1188874	10.3389/fanim.2023.1188874			JUN 23 2023	2023	IntroductionLimited forage quantity and quality are challenges faced in livestock production systems in semi-arid rangelands of the western United States, particularly when livestock face stressors such as cold weather or have increased nutritional requirements such as during pregnancy and lactation. To meet livestock nutrient requirements, producers frequently provide supplemental nutrition, however there is limited knowledge regarding the effects of these practices on the rumen microbiome in these environments. MethodsA study was conducted to evaluate changes in the rumen microbiome in response to high- and low- quality forage with sustained release mineral boluses. The study consisted of 16 ruminally-cannulated 2-3-year-old black angus cows fed high quality grass alfalfa hay or low-quality grass hay with a 90 or 180 day sustained release mineral bolus. Rumen samples were collected pre-feeding and 8 hours post feeding and bacterial 16S rRNA gene amplicons were sequenced from the rumen fluid. ResultsAlpha diversity as measured by Shannon's diversity index decreased significantly over time (p<0.01) and averaged 5.6 pre-feeding and 5.4 post- feeding and was not significantly different between high- and low-quality forages or between mineral bolus types (p>0.05). Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix showed distinct grouping by feed quality and time but not by mineral bolus type. Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes were the dominant phyla in all treatments and significant increases (p<0.05) in the relative abundance of the family Lachnospiraceae and the genus Prevotella were observed in high quality forage diets. Rumen VFA and NH3-N concentrations were also strongly associated with the high-quality forage diet. Predictive functional profiling indicated that functions associated with methanogenesis were negatively correlated with feed quality. DiscussionThe results of this study suggest that mineral bolus type is unlikely to affect rumen bacterial community structure or function while forage quality can significantly alter community structure and predicted functions associated with methanogenesis and VFA production.		[Eberly, Jed O.] Montana State Univ, Cent Agr Res Ctr, Moccasin, MT 59717 USA; [Wyffels, Samuel A.; Carlisle, Tanner J.; DelCurto, Timothy] Montana State Univ, Dept Anim & Range Sci, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; [Eberly, Jed O.] Montana State Univ, Cent Agr Res Ctr, Moccasin, MT 59717 USA								0							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:001023609500001		
J	Wang, Lu; Li, Yaokai; Li, Jiaxu; Tan, Lin; Rizo, Eric Zeus; Han, Bo-Ping								The seasonal patterns of aquatic insect composition and diversity in a disturbed (sub)tropical river revealed by linear and nonlinear approaches with occurrence and abundance data								HYDROBIOLOGIA				850	18			3949	3963		10.1007/s10750-023-05278-4			OCT 2023	2023	Understanding aquatic insect diversity is fundamental for river monitoring, conservation, and restoration. In contrast to the existence of general patterns for aquatic insects at large scales, weak or non-significant patterns are common at small scales. Numerical resolution and statistical approaches are considered key technical factors influencing the revealed patterns. In the present study, we examined the taxonomic composition and diversity of aquatic insects in a disturbed (sub)tropical river during wet and dry seasons and demonstrated seasonal patterns using linear and nonlinear approaches with both occurrence and abundance data. Collector-gatherers were more abundant and scrapers were less abundant in the wet season than in the dry season. Alpha diversity did not change significantly between the seasons but was affected seasonally by different environmental variables. However, beta diversity measured by both Sorensen and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity varied seasonally. Beta diversity was predicted to vary nonlinearly by environmental distance, more strongly in the wet season, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was predicted better than Sorensen dissimilarity index. Our study supports the role of environmental selection in structuring the community composition and diversity of aquatic insects in (sub)tropical rivers and emphasises that quantitative data and nonlinear approaches are more sensitive to community analyses at small scales.		[Wang, Lu; Li, Yaokai; Li, Jiaxu; Tan, Lin; Han, Bo-Ping] Jinan Univ, Inst Hydrobiol, Dept Ecol, Guangzhou 510632, Peoples R China; [Rizo, Eric Zeus] Univ Philippines Visayas, Coll Arts & Sci, Div Biol Sci, Miagao 065023, Iloilo, Philippines; [Han, Bo-Ping] Jinan Univ, Inst Hydrobiol, Dept Ecol, Guangzhou 510632, Peoples R China								0							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001011771700002		
J	Virta, Leena								Diversity of benthic diatoms in the Baltic Sea: alpha and beta diversity, environmental drivers, and diversity-biomass relationships								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				712				35	47		10.3354/meps14320			JUN 8 2023	2023	Benthic diatoms are crucial for the functioning of ecosystems, but their diversity patterns along large gradients are poorly studied. By using 3 self-collected data sets along large environmental gradients in the Baltic Sea, represented over spatial scales of 60, 1300, and 2300 km, I investigated whether different aspects of diversity follow general patterns or are context- and region-specific. General diversity patterns along different gradients would likely indicate high resilience of benthic diatoms against differences and changes in the environment, whereas context-dependent patterns would possibly suggest that environmental change is likely to modify diatom communities and that region-specific differences should be considered when designing ecosystem management. I investigated the effect of environmental conditions on taxonomic and functional diatom diversity with distance-based redundancy analyses, variability of taxonomic diversity with species accumulation curves, taxonomic and functional aspects of spatial beta diversity with pairwise Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices and Mantel tests, and diversity-biomass relationships with generalized linear models. The effect of environment on diatom communities was context-dependent, and different factors controlled communities along different gradients. Diversity varied along gradients and correlated with salinity in a U-shaped way. Beta diversity followed a general pattern of high taxonomic but low functional beta diversity along all gradients. Relationships between diatom diversity and ecosystem biomass were weak along all gradients. These results suggest that although the regional diversity of diatoms seems resilient, environmental change is likely to modify the local diversity of diatom communities. Finding out how these changes will affect ecosystem functioning requires further investigation.		[Virta, Leena] Univ Helsinki, Tvarminne Zool Stn, Hango 10900, Finland; [Virta, Leena] Univ Helsinki, Tvarminne Zool Stn, Hango 10900, Finland								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:001030934600003		
J	Arias-Moliz, M. T.; Ordinola-Zapata, R.; Staley, C.; Perez-Carrasco, V.; Garcia-Salcedo, J. A.; Uroz-Torres, D.; Soriano, M.								Exploring the root canal microbiome in previously treated teeth: A comparative study of diversity and metabolic pathways across two geographical locations								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL											10.1111/iej.13934				2023	AimTo analyse and compare the root canal microbiome present in root-filled teeth of two different geographical populations, and to study their functional potential using a next-generation sequencing approach.MethodologySequencing data obtained from surgical specimens from previously treated teeth with periapical bone loss from Spain and USA were included in the study. Taxa were classified using SILVA v.138 database. Differences in genera abundances among the 10 most abundant genera were evaluated using a Kruskal-Wallis test. Alpha diversity indices were calculated in mothur. The Shannon and Chao1 indices were used. Analyses of similarity (ANOSIM) to determine differences in community composition were done in mothur, with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. p-Values < .05 were considered statistically significant. Identification of enriched bacteria function prediction in the study groups (KEGG pathways) was carried out by linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) via Python 3.7.6.ResultsA greater alpha-diversity (Shannon and Chao1 indices) was observed from samples obtained in Spain (p = .002). Geography showed no significant effects on community composition via an ANOSIM using Bray-Curtis dissimilarities (R = 0.03, p = .21). Bacterial functional analysis prediction obtained by PICRUSt showed that 5.7% KEGG pathways differed between the Spain and US samples.ConclusionsThe taxonomic assessment alone does not fully capture the microbiome's differences from two different geographical locations. Carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism were enriched in samples from Spain, while samples from USA had a higher representation of pathways related to nitrogen, propanoate metabolism, and secretion systems.		[Arias-Moliz, M. T.] Univ Granada, Dept Microbiol, Granada, Spain; [Arias-Moliz, M. T.; Perez-Carrasco, V.; Garcia-Salcedo, J. A.] Inst Invest Biosanit Ibs GRANADA, Granada, Spain; [Ordinola-Zapata, R.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Restorat Sci, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Staley, C.] Univ Minnesota, Dept Surg, Div Basic & Translat Res, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Perez-Carrasco, V.; Garcia-Salcedo, J. A.; Soriano, M.] Univ Granada, GENYO Ctr Genom & Oncol Res Pfizer, Andalusian Reg Govt, Granada, Spain; [Perez-Carrasco, V.; Garcia-Salcedo, J. A.] Univ Hosp Virgen Nieves, Microbiol Unit, Granada, Spain; [Soriano, M.] Univ Almeria, Ctr Res Mediterranean Intens Agrosyst & Agrifood B, Almeria, Spain; [Ordinola-Zapata, R.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Restorat Sci, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								0							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:001000019200001		
J	Geoghegan, Paul; Murphy, Michael D.; Wilbur, Anthony R.								The Structures of the Demersal Fish Communities of New Bedford and Gloucester Harbors, Two Massachusetts Urban Estuaries								NORTHEASTERN NATURALIST				30	2			186	211					JUN 2023	2023	We sampled the inshore fish communities of New Bedford and Gloucester harbors synoptically using identical gear for 12 months during 1998- 1999. Although the 2 harbors are only 110 km apart, they are separated by Cape Cod, which is the transition between the southern New England (New Bedford) and the Gulf of Maine (Gloucester) biogeographic regions. The 2 fish communities were 69% dissimilar from each other using the Bray- Curtis dissimilarity index (B-C). Stenotomus chrysops (Scup) composed 80% of the catch in New Bedford Harbor, did not occur in Gloucester Harbor, and contributed 7.40% to the total dissimilarity between the harbors. B-C identified 2 seasonal groups in the New Bedford Harbor fish community: May-October and November-Apri l. Leucoraja spp. ( skates) comprised the most numerous taxon captured in Gloucester Harbor, accounting for 24.90% of the total catch followed by Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Winter Flounder; 24.16%), and Gadus morhua ( Atlantic Cod; 22.52%). These taxa contributed 7.23%, 3.88%, and 6.16% respectively to the total dissimilarity between harbors. B- C identified 4 seasonal groups in Gloucester Harbor: January, February and March, April and May, and June-December. These data provide an important description of the fish communities in the 2 harbors in different biogeographic regions at the end of the 20th century. We expect differences between the communities to decrease with increasing water temperature due to climate change.		[Geoghegan, Paul; Murphy, Michael D.] Normandeau Associates Inc, 25 Nashua Rd, Bedford, NH 03110 USA; [Wilbur, Anthony R.] Essex North Shore Agr & Tech Sch, 565 Maple St, Danvers, MA 01923 USA; [Geoghegan, Paul] Normandeau Associates Inc, 25 Nashua Rd, Bedford, NH 03110 USA								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:001029065900007		
J	Mehal, Kulwinder Kaur; Sharma, Aditi; Kaur, Amarpreet; Kalia, Neha; Kohli, Ravinder Kumar; Singh, Harminder Pal; Batish, Daizy R.								Modelling the ecological impact of invasive weed <i>Verbesina encelioides</i> on vegetation composition across dryland ecosystems of Punjab, northwestern India								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	6					725	10.1007/s10661-023-11299-2			JUN 2023	2023	Events of climate change have led to increased aridification, which alters local vegetation patterns and results in the invasion of opportunistic species. Though many studies assess the impact of invasive weeds and aridification at the agronomic level, studies investigating changes in local vegetation are severely lacking. We investigated the impact of the invasive plant Verbesina encelioides (Asteraceae) on the local vegetation composition across different dryland ecosystems in Punjab, northwestern India. Based on the aridity index for the period of 1991-2016, three major dryland ecosystems, i.e., arid, semi-arid, and sub-humid, were found in Punjab. The impact of V. encelioides on local biodiversity was measured in terms of species diversity (using Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's dominance index, Hill's evenness index, and Margalef's richness index), species composition (using non-metric multidimensional scaling based on Bray-Curtis's dissimilarity index), and species proportion in the two invasion classes (uninvaded and invaded) and across the three aridity zones (arid, semi-arid, and sub-humid). The vegetation survey depicted the presence of 53 flowering species belonging to 22 families, including 30 exotics and 23 natives. Verbesina encelioides decreased species diversity and proportion, with a more pronounced impact in arid and semi-arid ecosystems. In contrast, species composition varied between uninvaded and invaded classes only in arid ecosystems. Ecological parameters derived from population statistics (number of individuals) were more drastically affected than those from species abundance data. Since the ecological impacts of V. encelioides were manifested with increased aridification, it is a matter of apprehension under the potential climate change scenario.		[Mehal, Kulwinder Kaur; Sharma, Aditi; Kaur, Amarpreet; Kalia, Neha; Batish, Daizy R.] Panjab Univ, Dept Bot, Chandigarh 160014, India; [Kohli, Ravinder Kumar] Amity Univ, Int Airport Rd Sect 82A, Mohali 140306, Punjab, India; [Singh, Harminder Pal] Panjab Univ, Dept Environm Studies, Chandigarh 160014, India; [Singh, Harminder Pal] Panjab Univ, Dept Environm Studies, Chandigarh 160014, India								2							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000995363900005		
J	Malewski, Tadeusz; Borowik, Piotr; Olejarski, Ireneusz; Rutkiewicz, Artur; Okorski, Adam; Oszako, Tomasz								Addition of Organic Matter to Pine Plantations on Agricultural Land Positively Alters the Mycobiome of Agricultural Soils								APPLIED SCIENCES-BASEL				13	9					5800	10.3390/app13095800			MAY 8 2023	2023	Afforestation of former agricultural land poses a real challenge for foresters because soil life is often severely limited by the loss of natural soil fungal diversity. In addition, former agricultural soils have low levels of fungal species typical of forest soils, which have a unique microbiome that plays a protective role (antagonists, plant growth promoters, mycorrhizal fungi, etc.). This study aimed to determine the effect of using organic material in the form of bark compost, wood waste, and sawdust to improve the soil mycobiome of soils that have been damaged by their agricultural use. This study used experimental plots established 20 years ago, and we compared the biodiversity of the treated soils with that of the control soils by analysing soil samples with powerful molecular methods. Next-generation sequencing analysis of DNA extracted from soil samples and subsequent analysis of their species composition and biodiversity showed that the mycobiome of soil fungi has been altered by the addition of various forms of organic material. The proportion of fungi belonging to the Ascomycota decreased in favour of species from the Basidiomycota and Mucoromycota. The dominant fungal groups in the soil of the control area were Sagenomella, Wilcoxina, Oidiodendron, Meliniomyces, and Penicillium. Enrichment with organic matter by adding bark compost under the roots led to an increase in Penicillium, Inocybe, and Amphinema. The application of bark compost on the surface led to an increase in the dominance of Inocybe fungi in the soil. The mycobiome of the plant to which woody debris was applied was characterised by a marked dominance of fungi of the genera Russula, Oidiodendron, and Penicillium. Similar ratios were found in the plant to which sawdust was applied, where the fungi Meliniomyces, Penicillium, Oidiodendron, and Russula dominated. A comparative analysis of fungal diversity with the Shannon diversity index showed that the most diverse fungal communities were found in the sawdust plant (6.56), while the control sample (a soil sample from an agricultural area where no organic material was applied) had an index of 5.71. After the treatments, more potential antagonists against pine pathogens and mycorrhizal fungi were found to form beneficial symbiotic relationships with them. In our opinion, the results of this study show that it is worthwhile to introduce different forms of organic matter to post-agricultural land to improve soil biodiversity and mycorrhizal associations of pine roots with fungi to ensure the sustainability of the first generation of forests created.		[Malewski, Tadeusz] Polish Acad Sci, Museum & Inst Zool, Ul Wilcza 64, PL-00679 Warsaw, Poland; [Borowik, Piotr; Rutkiewicz, Artur; Oszako, Tomasz] Forest Res Inst, Dept Forest Protect, Ul Braci Lesnej 3, PL-05090 Sekocin Stary, Poland; [Olejarski, Ireneusz] Forest Res Inst, Dept Ecol, Ul Braci Lesnej 3, PL-05090 Sekocin Stary, Poland; [Okorski, Adam] Univ Warmia & Mazury, Fac Agr & Forestry, Dept Entomol Phytopathol & Mol Diagnost, Pl Lodzki 5, PL-10727 Olsztyn, Poland; [Oszako, Tomasz] Forest Res Inst, Dept Forest Protect, Ul Braci Lesnej 3, PL-05090 Sekocin Stary, Poland								2							Chemistry, Multidisciplinary; Engineering, Multidisciplinary; Materials Science, Multidisciplinary; Physics, Applied	WOS:000986694000001		
J	Burnham, Christina M. M.; McKenney, Erin A. A.; Ange-van Heugten, Kimberly; Minter, Larry J. J.; Trivedi, Shweta								Effects of age, seasonality, and reproductive status on the gut microbiome of Southern White Rhinoceros (<i>Ceratotherium simum simum</i>) at the North Carolina zoo								ANIMAL MICROBIOME				5	1					27	10.1186/s42523-023-00249-5			MAY 5 2023	2023	BackgroundManaged southern white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum) serve as assurance populations for wild conspecifics threatened by poaching and other anthropocentric effects, though many managed populations experience subfertility and reproductive failure. Gut microbiome and host health are inextricably linked, and reproductive outcomes in managed southern white rhinoceros may be mediated in part by their diet and gut microbial diversity. Thus, understanding microbial dynamics within managed populations may help improve conservation efforts. We characterized the taxonomic composition of the gut microbiome in the managed population of female southern white rhinoceros (n = 8) at the North Carolina Zoo and investigated the effects of seasonality (summer vs. winter) and age classes (juveniles (n = 2; 0-2 years), subadults (n = 2; 3-7 years), and adults (n = 4; >7 years)) on microbial richness and community structure. Collection of a fecal sample was attempted for each individual once per month from July-September 2020 and January-March 2021 resulting in a total of 41 samples analyzed. Microbial DNA was extracted and sequenced using the V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA bacterial gene. Total operational taxonomic units (OTUs), alpha diversity (species richness, Shannon diversity), and beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, linear discriminant analysis effect size) indices were examined, and differentially enriched taxa were identified.ResultsThere were differences (p < 0.05) in alpha and beta diversity indices across individuals, age groups, and sampling months. Subadult females had higher levels of Shannon diversity (Wilcoxon, p < 0.05) compared to adult females and harbored a community cluster distinct from both juveniles and adults. Samples collected during winter months (January-March 2021) possessed higher species richness and statistically distinct communities compared to summer months (July-September 2020) (PERMANOVA, p < 0.05). Reproductively active (n = 2) and currently nonreproductive adult females (n = 2) harbored differentially enriched taxa, with the gut microbiome of nonreproductive females significantly enriched (p = 0.001) in unclassified members of Mobiluncus, a genus which possesses species associated with poor reproductive outcomes in other animal species when identified in the cervicovaginal microbiome.ConclusionTogether, our results increase the understanding of age and season related microbial variation in southern white rhinoceros at the North Carolina Zoo and have identified a potential microbial biomarker for reproductive concern within managed female southern white rhinoceros.		[Burnham, Christina M. M.; Ange-van Heugten, Kimberly; Trivedi, Shweta] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Anim Sci, 120 W Broughton Dr, Raleigh, NC 27607 USA; [McKenney, Erin A. A.] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Appl Ecol, 100 Brooks Ave, Raleigh, NC 27607 USA; [Minter, Larry J. J.] North Carolina Zoo, 4401 Zoo Pkwy, Asheboro, NC 27205 USA; [Trivedi, Shweta] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Anim Sci, 120 W Broughton Dr, Raleigh, NC 27607 USA								2							Microbiology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000982638200001		
J	Maes, Michael; Vasupanrajit, Asara; Jirakran, Ketsupar; Klomkliew, Pavit; Chanchaem, Prangwalai; Tunvirachaisakul, Chavit; Payungporn, Sunchai								Exploration of the Gut Microbiome in Thai Patients with Major Depressive Disorder Shows a Specific Bacterial Profile with Depletion of the <i>Ruminococcus</i> Genus as a Putative Biomarker								CELLS				12	9					1240	10.3390/cells12091240			APR 25 2023	2023	Maes et al. (2008) published the first paper demonstrating that major depressive disorder (MDD) is accompanied by abnormalities in the microbiota-gut-brain axis, as evidenced by elevated serum IgM/IgA to lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of Gram-negative bacteria, such as Morganella morganii and Klebsiella Pneumoniae. The latter aberrations, which point to increased gut permeability (leaky gut), are linked to activated neuro-immune and oxidative pathways in MDD. To delineate the profile and composition of the gut microbiome in Thai patients with MDD, we examined fecal samples of 32 MDD patients and 37 controls using 16S rDNA sequencing, analyzed alpha- (Chao1 and Shannon indices) and beta-diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), and conducted linear discriminant analysis (LDA) effect size (LEfSe) analysis. Neither alpha- nor beta-diversity differed significantly between MDD and controls. Rhodospirillaceae, Hungatella, Clostridium bolteae, Hungatella hathewayi, and Clostridium propionicum were significantly enriched in MDD, while Gracillibacteraceae family, Lutispora, and Ruminococcus genus, Ruminococcus callidus, Desulfovibrio piger, Coprococcus comes, and Gemmiger were enriched in controls. Contradictory results have been reported for all these taxa, with the exception of Ruminococcus, which is depleted in six different MDD studies (one study showed increased abundance), many medical disorders that show comorbidities with MDD, and animal MDD models. Our results may suggest a specific profile of compositional gut dysbiosis in Thai MDD patients, with increases in some pathobionts and depletion of some beneficial microbiota. The results suggest that depletion of Ruminococcus may be a more universal biomarker of MDD that may contribute to increased enteral LPS load, LPS translocation, and gut-brain axis abnormalities.		[Maes, Michael; Vasupanrajit, Asara; Jirakran, Ketsupar; Tunvirachaisakul, Chavit] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Psychiat, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Maes, Michael; Vasupanrajit, Asara; Jirakran, Ketsupar; Tunvirachaisakul, Chavit] King Chulalongkorn Mem Hosp, Thai Red Cross Soc, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Maes, Michael] Med Univ Plovdiv, Dept Psychiat, Plovdiv 4002, Bulgaria; [Maes, Michael] Med Univ Plovdiv, Res Inst, Plovdiv 4002, Bulgaria; [Maes, Michael] Kyung Hee Univ, 26 Kyungheedae Ro, Seoul 02447, South Korea; [Jirakran, Ketsupar] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Pediat, Maximizing Thai Childrens Dev Potential Res Unit, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Klomkliew, Pavit; Chanchaem, Prangwalai; Payungporn, Sunchai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Ctr Excellence Syst Microbiol, Dept Biochem, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Maes, Michael] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Psychiat, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Maes, Michael] King Chulalongkorn Mem Hosp, Thai Red Cross Soc, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Maes, Michael] Med Univ Plovdiv, Dept Psychiat, Plovdiv 4002, Bulgaria; [Maes, Michael] Med Univ Plovdiv, Res Inst, Plovdiv 4002, Bulgaria; [Maes, Michael] Kyung Hee Univ, 26 Kyungheedae Ro, Seoul 02447, South Korea								2							Cell Biology	WOS:000987174800001		
J	Mahgoub, Alaa M. M. A.								Ecological importance and sociological characters of fourteen widespread weeds and their contribution to the observed (dis)similarity between weed communities								HELIYON				9	4					e13638	10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e13638			APR 2023	2023	Widespread weeds are a serious nuisance to farmers in any country whether they are growing agricultural or horticultural crops for the great damage they cause to the economy, human health and environment loss. Thus, it is important to measure their ecological importance, sociological characters, their contribution to the observed (dis)similarity between weed communities associated with agronomic and horticulture crops, as well as performing time series analysis and forecasting for their cumulative records. Hopefully with the aforementioned information available, it will be possible to determine the most detrimental which deserve resistance priority within a successful weed control plan, which is the aim of the current study. Depending on species records 2018-2020, fourteen weeds assigned widespread out of the 537-species recorded. Their values in the Importance Value Index (IVI) suggested that Sonchus oleraceus had the highest ecological importance among winter weeds (IVI = 50.5), whereas Bassia indica had the highest IVI among summer weeds (IVI = 42.7) and Cynodon dactylon showed the highest value in the observed competition throughout the year (IVI = 46.2). Analysis of Similarities (ANOSIM) indicates that the weed community structure is significantly affected by widespread weeds and the mean of ranked dissimilarities in floristic composition between groups (weed communities associated with crop categories) is greater than within groups. Similarity Percentage analysis (SIMPER) based on Bray-Curtis as a distance dissimilarity measure, revealed that Cyperus rotundus, Melilotus indicus and Beta vulgaris were the most discriminant species in creating the observed pattern of (dis)similarity between the weed community structure associated with agronomic and horticultural crops during the winter half of the year, while Aster squamatus and Echinochloa colona were the most discriminant during the summer half. It is prominent from the results of the current study and the implemented time-series analysis and forecasting that no-decline is expected in the cumulative records of the 14-widespread weeds when the same current weed management strategy is applied.		[Mahgoub, Alaa M. M. A.] Cairo Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Giza, Egypt; [Mahgoub, Alaa M. M. A.] Cairo Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Giza, Egypt								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000999077900001		
J	Xing, Xiaoyi; Lv, Jiale; Zhang, Yali; Qing, Rubing; Yin, Danhong; Yang, Xianjun; Chen, Lijun; Ni, Fei								Abundant denitrifying taxa rather than rare taxa responded more sensitively to temperature change in acidic paddy soils								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY				116						103486	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2023.103486			MAY-JUN 2023	2023	Climate change has strong effects on the distribution of soil denitrifying bacterial communities; however, how temperature alter the stability of the abundant and rare denitrifying biosphere remains unknown. In this study, paddy soils were incubated under four temperatures (5 degrees C, 15 degrees C, 25 degrees C, and 35 degrees C) in 125% water-filled pore space for 96 h and nirS and nosZ genes were then sequenced via high-throughput sequencing. The results showed that both abundant and rare denitrifers responded to varying temperature, however, the abundant taxa were more sensitive. Firstly, for alpha-diversities of soil denitrifiers, temperature increase affected both abundant and rare taxa by reducing the richness (Chao1 index) of rare taxa and the evenness (Pielou index) of abundant taxa. When the temperature increased from 5 degrees C to 35 degrees C, the above indexes decreased about by 30%. However, with regard to community distribution pattern and co-occurrence network, abundant taxa apparently displayed higher sensitivity than rare taxa. Principal co-ordinate analysis (PCoA) indicated an obvious separation of the abundant nirS and nosZ genes with different temperatures, however, the clear separation of the rare taxa was only observed as temperature changed significantly. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity analysis further proved that the community structure differentiation was more significant for abundant taxa under the four temperature conditions. Co-occurrence network analysis revealed that abundant denitrifiers occupied more central locations in the network assembly. More importantly, the edge/node ratio and positive association percentage among abundant taxa increased with temperature increase, implying that abundant taxa possessed more frequent, presumably, more positive interaction under higher temperature. Whereas, the response of the above network topological properties of rare taxa was much weaker. Collectively, these results indicated that increasing temperature significantly affected soil abundant denitrifying taxa by lowering alpha-diversity, increasing interaction and changing the community structure. Whereas rare taxa were less vulnerable to warming. Accordingly, the abundant denitrifiers could act as "key indicators" to predict the response strategy of soil microorganisms to future global warming, while rare taxa no longer need excessive in-depth analysis.		[Xing, Xiaoyi; Lv, Jiale; Zhang, Yali; Qing, Rubing; Yin, Danhong; Yang, Xianjun; Chen, Lijun; Ni, Fei] Shaoyang Univ, Urban & Rural Construction Coll, Shaoyang 422000, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yali] Cent South Univ Forestry & Technol, Inst Landscape Architecture, Changsha 410004, Peoples R China; [Yin, Danhong] Fujian Normal Univ, Sch Geog Sci, Fuzhou 350007, Peoples R China; [Ni, Fei] Shaoyang Univ, Urban & Rural Construction Coll, Shaoyang 422000, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000968756800001		
J	Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Costalonga, Massimo; Dietz, Matthew; Lima, Bruno P. P.; Staley, Christopher								The root canal microbiome diversity and function. A whole-metagenome shotgun analysis								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL											10.1111/iej.13911				2023	AimTo evaluate the root canal microbiome composition and bacterial functional capability in cases of primary and secondary apical periodontitis utilizing whole-metagenome shotgun sequencing. MethodologyTwenty-two samples from patients with primary root canal infections, and 18 samples obtained from previously treated teeth currently diagnosed with apical periodontitis were analysed with whole-metagenome shotgun sequencing at a depth of 20 M reads. Taxonomic and functional gene annotations were made using MetaPhlAn3 and HUMAnN3 software. The Shannon and Chao1 indices were utilized to measure alpha diversity. Differences in community composition were evaluated utilizing analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) using Bray-Curtis dissimilarities. The Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to compare differences in taxa and functional genes. ResultsMicrobial community variations within a community were significantly lower in secondary relative to primary infections (alpha diversity p = .001). Community composition was significantly different in primary versus secondary infection (R = .11, p = .005). The predominant taxa observed among samples (>2.5%) were Pseudopropionibacterium propionicum, Prevotella oris, Eubacterium infirmum, Tannerella forsythia, Atopobium rimae, Peptostreptococcus stomatis, Bacteroidetes bacterium oral taxon 272, Parvimonas micra, Olsenella profusa, Streptococcus anginosus, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Porphyromonas endodontalis, Pseudoramibacter alactolyticus, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Eubacterium brachy and Solobacterium moorei. The Wilcoxon rank test revealed no significant differences in relative abundances of functional genes in both groups. Genes with greater relative abundances (top 25) were associated with genetic, signalling and cellular processes including the iron and peptide/nickel transport system. Numerous genes encoding toxins were identified: exfoliative toxin, haemolysins, thiol-activated cytolysin, phospholipase C, cAMP factor, sialidase, and hyaluronic glucosaminidase. ConclusionsDespite taxonomic differences between primary and secondary apical periodontitis, the functional capability of the microbiomes was similar.		[Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Restorat Sci, Div Endodont, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo; Lima, Bruno P. P.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, Div Basic Sci, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Dietz, Matthew; Staley, Christopher] Univ Minnesota, Dept Surg, Div Basic & Translat Res, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Basic Sci, 7-368 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Basic Sci, 7-368 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								2							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000959183100001		
J	Sivapornnukul, Pavaret; Chitcharoen, Suwalak; Sawaswong, Vorthon; Tachaboon, Sasipha; Dinhuzen, Janejira; Srisawat, Nattachai; Payungporn, Sunchai								Comparison of circulating bacterial profiles between mild and severe COVID-19 patients								EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE				248	10			866	873		10.1177/15353702231157931			MAY 2023	2023	Recent reports revealed that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-infected patients can develop bacteremia; however, the circulating bacterial profile is not well studied. Therefore, this study has aimed to investigate circulating bacterial profile in mild (n = 15) and severe (n = 13) SARS-CoV-2-infected patients as well as healthy controls (n = 10), using 16S rDNA (V4) sequencing approach. The alpha diversity indexes and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix revealed that the bacterial profiles between the two conditions are significantly different. Correspondingly, the relative abundance indicates that the predominant bacterial phylum in both conditions was Proteobacteria. At genus level, the dominant bacterial genera in the mild patients belonged to Sphingomonas, Stenotrophomonas, and Achromobacter, while bacterial genera belonging to Enhydrobacter, Comamonas, and Acinetobacter were dominant in the severe patients. Furthermore, Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) Effect Size (LEfSe). revealed that Stenotrophomonas, Delftia, Achromobacter, and Neisseria were enriched in the mild condition, while Agrobacterium, Comamonas, Pseudomonas, Corynebacterium, Alkaliphilus, and Kocuria were enriched in the severe patients. These results revealed a distinct circulating bacterial profile in the mild and severe SARS-CoV-2-infected patients, which may provide an insight for further therapeutic strategy.		[Sivapornnukul, Pavaret; Chitcharoen, Suwalak; Sawaswong, Vorthon; Payungporn, Sunchai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Ctr Excellence Syst Microbiol, Dept Biochem, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Chitcharoen, Suwalak; Sawaswong, Vorthon] Chulalongkorn Univ, Grad Sch, Program Bioinformat & Computat Biol, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Tachaboon, Sasipha; Dinhuzen, Janejira; Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Tachaboon, Sasipha; Dinhuzen, Janejira; Srisawat, Nattachai] King Chulalongkorn Mem Hosp, Excellence Ctr Crit Care Nephrol, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Crit Care Nephrol Res Unit, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Trop Med Cluster, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Acad Sci, Royal Soc Thailand, Bangkok 10300, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Univ Pittsburgh, Ctr Crit Care Nephrol, CRISMA Ctr, Dept Crit Care Med,Sch Med, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA; [Payungporn, Sunchai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Ctr Excellence Syst Microbiol, Dept Biochem, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] King Chulalongkorn Mem Hosp, Excellence Ctr Crit Care Nephrol, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Crit Care Nephrol Res Unit, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Trop Med Cluster, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Acad Sci, Royal Soc Thailand, Bangkok 10300, Thailand; [Srisawat, Nattachai] Univ Pittsburgh, Ctr Crit Care Nephrol, CRISMA Ctr, Dept Crit Care Med,Sch Med, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 USA								0							Medicine, Research & Experimental	WOS:000954752000001		
J	Sharma, Prateek; Singh, Sarika; Das, Kunal; Mahant, Shweta; Das, Rajashree								Dysbiosis of gut microbiota due to diet, alcohol intake, body mass index, and gastrointestinal diseases in India								APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY AND BIOTECHNOLOGY											10.1007/s00253-023-12470-y				2023	The human gut is composed of diverse microflora which is influenced by dietary intake. Body mass index (BMI) and lifestyle patterns also play a vital role in human health to alter gut microbial composition. Our study aims to determine the impact of alcohol intake, BMI, and diet on gut microbiota and its relationship with gastrointestinal disorders. Thirty-nine gastric biopsies were taken from patients with various gastrointestinal (GI) diseases, and all the patient's lifestyle behavior were recorded in a written proforma. 16S rRNA metagenome analysis for V3-V4 regions was used to examine microbial compositions. The richness and diversity of gut microbiota were analyzed by PERMANOVA using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and principal component analysis. The difference in relative abundance was calculated by ANOVA (p < 0.05). Alpha diversity indexes between vegetarians and non-vegetarians showed no significant difference based on BMI, alcohol status, and GI diseases. We found that in overweight vegetarian individuals Faecalibacterium and Rumicococcus might play a role in the control of Helicobacter pylori. Similarly, the increased abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila in non-vegetarian individuals with normal BMI might play a role to decrease the level of harmful bacteria like H. pylori, and Corynebacterium sp. Also, the relative abundance of Corynebacterium sp. among the vegetarians and Streptococcus sp. in the non-vegetarians was increased in alcoholics while H. pylori was increased in non-alcoholics irrespective of diet. There is an increased abundance of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii in vegetarians among all categories; however, we did not find any correlation between disease outcomes. Our study shows that alcohol intake and dietary habits have independent effects on gut microbial composition. The relative abundance of F. prausnitzii was high among vegetarians in all categories.		[Sharma, Prateek; Singh, Sarika; Mahant, Shweta; Das, Rajashree] Amity Univ, Amity Inst Biotechnol, Ctr Med Biotechnol, Noida 201303, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Das, Kunal] Yashoda Super Specialty Hosp, Dept Gastroenterol, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Das, Rajashree] Amity Univ, Amity Inst Biotechnol, Ctr Med Biotechnol, Noida 201303, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Das, Kunal] Yashoda Super Specialty Hosp, Dept Gastroenterol, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, India								0							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology	WOS:000952923500007		
J	Hou, Weichen; Kuzyakov, Yakov; Qi, Yanwen; Liu, Xiang; Zhang, Hui; Zhou, Shurong								Functional traits of soil nematodes define their response to nitrogen fertilization								FUNCTIONAL ECOLOGY				37	5			1197	1210		10.1111/1365-2435.14293			MAY 2023	2023	1. Nitrogen (N) fertilization and warming are two crucial global change factors affecting the soil nematode communities. The effects of N fertilization and warming, however, on nematode communities in soils are inconsistent across ecosystems and maybe be even opposite. 2. One key reason is that the commonly used taxonomic diversity is less sensitive to environmental changes than the seldom-used trait-based indicators. To verify this, we performed an 8-year field experiment with four N fertilization levels with and without soil warming and collected an extensive dataset consisting of (i) six traits related to the nematode performance, that is, body size, maximum body length, maximum body width, stylet length, oesophagus length and intestinal length; (ii) the taxonomic alpha (richness and abundance) and beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarities) of the whole nematode community and each nematode functional group, (iii) soil food web resources (the total taxonomic richness and abundance of plant, bacterial and fungal communities) and (iv) soil properties (pH, total, ammonium and nitrate N, microbial N and C, total and available P and soil water content). 3. We found that N fertilization altered plant diversity and soil nitrate levels, which in turn decreased taxonomic alpha diversity of two nematode functional groups (phytophagous nematodes and predators), but taxonomic diversity for the whole nematode community remained stable. The decreased taxonomic alpha diversity of phytophagous nematodes resulted in increased maximum body width, but decreased stylet length and oesophageal length. Mild warming (similar to 0.7 degrees C) had no effects on soil properties and soil food web resources, and the taxonomic diversity or nematode traits remained unchanged. 4. Our results reveal that nematode functional traits show strong responses to N fertilization as individual nematode groups adapted quickly to changed soil properties and food web resources. Taxonomic diversity indices, however, were more stable under these changes showing that the functional composition of nematode communities may respond in the short term despite little effects on species diversity. Thus, the trait-based indicators not only reveal how nematodes respond to N fertilization, but also how nematodes mediate the effects of N fertilization on ecosystem functioning (i.e. soil nutrient cycling).		[Hou, Weichen; Qi, Yanwen; Zhang, Hui; Zhou, Shurong] Hainan Univ, Sch Forestry, Key Lab Genet & Germplasm Innovat Trop Special Fo, Minist Educ, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Kuzyakov, Yakov] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Dept Agr Soil Sci, Dept Soil Sci Temperate Ecosyst, Gottingen, Germany; [Kuzyakov, Yakov] RUDN Univ, Agrotechnol Inst, Peoples Friendship Univ Russia, Moscow, Russia; [Liu, Xiang] Lanzhou Univ, Inst Innovat Ecol, State Key Lab Grassland Agroecosyst, Lanzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hui; Zhou, Shurong] Hainan Univ, Sch Forestry, Key Lab Genet & Germplasm Innovat Trop Special Fo, Minist Educ, Haikou, Hainan, Peoples R China								0							Ecology	WOS:000948670900001		
J	Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed; Vinobaba, Periyathamby; Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela; Khan, Syed Ajmal								Fish diversity and assemblage in the Batticaloa lagoon, Sri Lanka								JOURNAL OF FISH BIOLOGY				102	4			773	793		10.1111/jfb.15314			APR 2023	2023	The Batticaloa Lagoon (Sri Lanka's third-largest brackish waterbody) has suffered habitat degradation and water quality deterioration during the past 30 years due to various anthropogenic activities. Despite Sri Lanka having 40 lagoons, inventories on the lagoon ichthyofauna are rather meagre and data on fish diversity and assemblages are scarce. An assessment of fish diversity is essential to maintain the ecological stability and lagoon fisheries. This study examined the fish fauna of the Batticaloa lagoon considering the northern and southern regions of the lagoon and various depths through a 3-year survey (2017-2019) and documented the dominant and rare fish species. In addition, biodiversity measures, species assemblages and the role of environmental parameters on the distribution of fishes were documented. Various diversity indices (the Margalef richness index, the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, the dominance index, the taxonomic diversity index, the average taxonomic distinctness index and the total taxonomic distinctness index) were calculated. Analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) was used to examine the seasonal and regional differences in the fish assemblages. The survey showed the occurrence of 96 species belonging to 40 families and 11 orders. Ambassis gymnocephalus was the most abundant fish species (8.7% of the total number of fishes collected) followed by Etroplus suratensis (6.8%), Arius maculatus (6.1%), Gerres filamentosus (5.3%), Oreochromis niloticus (4.6%) and Gerres abbreviates (3.9%). Dasyatis uarnak (0.02%), Acanthurus gahhm (0.03%), Alectis ciliaris (0.04%) and Crossorhombus valderostratus (0.08%) were considered as rare species which constitute less than 0.1% of the total while D. uarnak was considered a doubletons species (represented twice in the whole sample of 16 stations). Two types of species assemblages, one in the northern region and one in the southern region, were evident in a dendrogram (Based on the samples were collected on each region dendrogram were plotted with respect to sites then finally dendrogram of one region pratly connected by other region) based on sample composition similarity estimated with a Bray-Curtis matrix and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was 59.03% between the two regions, indicating statistically significant differences in assemblages (ANOSIM R 0.801; P < 0.01). The northern region of the lagoon had a higher number of species, density, Margalef richness, Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, taxonomic diversity, taxonomic distinctness and total taxonomic distinctness compared to the southern region. The northern region showed significantly higher levels of salinity and dissolved oxygen (DO) and the southern region higher temperature, turbidity, phosphates and nitrates. The best subset of biota and environmental variables [BEST (BIO-ENV)] test showed a significant relationship between fish assemblage and environmental parameters. Distance-based linear model analysis showed a significant relationship between fish assemblage and the environmental parameters salinity, temperature, pH and DO. The sequential test of this analysis showed the environmental parameters to explain about 74.9% (R-2) of the total variation. The bioenvironmental model developed was found to be appropriate. Thirteen species were found to be influential as they explained the overall fish distribution pattern with a Spearman rank correlation of 0.951. Ten groups of coherent species were also identified in the study area. In stations having anthropogenic activities, the fish diversity was low. The fish fauna of the Batticaloa lagoon should be monitored periodically to protect the fishery resources here. An understanding of the role that environment plays in structuring the fish assemblage in the Batticaloa lagoon and locations with critical habitats will be of great importance in the conservation and management of fishery resources in this lagoon. However, as monitoring only the dominant species may fail to pick up on important impacts affecting the less common species, it should be done using diversity indices and rare fish species. Monitoring is imperative in view of the livelihood of the fishers this lagoon supports and the health of the local people, as fish is a healthy food. The fishery resources of this lagoon must be protected for posterity with appropriate management measures.		[Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed; Vinobaba, Periyathamby] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai, Sri Lanka; [Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela] La Trobe Univ, Dept Ecol Environm & Evolut, Melbourne Campus, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela] Univ Colombo, Fac Grad Studies, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Khan, Syed Ajmal] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai, India; [Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai 30350, Sri Lanka; [Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai 30350, Sri Lanka								0							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000922893000001		
J	Zhang, Xinyu; Cao, Zhijun; Yang, Hongjian; Wang, Yajing; Wang, Wei; Li, Shengli								Analysis of serum antioxidant capacity and gut microbiota in calves at different growth stages in Tibet								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						1089488	10.3389/fmicb.2022.1089488			JAN 30 2023	2023	IntroductionThe hypoxic environment at high altitudes poses a major physiological challenge to animals, especially young animals, as it disturbs the redox state and induces intestinal dysbiosis. Information about its effects on Holstein calves is limited. MethodsHere, serum biochemical indices and next-generation sequencing were used to explore serum antioxidant capacity, fecal fermentation performance, and fecal microbiota in Holstein calves aged 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months in Tibet. Results and DiscussionSerum antioxidant capacity changed with age, with the catalase and malondialdehyde levels significantly decreasing (p < 0.05), and superoxide dismutase levels significantly increasing (p < 0.05) with age. No significant differences (p > 0.05) in total volatile fatty acid levels were noted between the groups. In all groups, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria were the three most dominant phyla in the gut. Gut microbial alpha diversity significantly increased (p < 0.05) with age. Principal coordinate analysis plot based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity revealed significant differences (p = 0.001) among the groups. Furthermore, the relative abundance of various genera changed dynamically with age, and the serum antioxidant capacity was associated with certain gut bacteria. The study provides novel insights for feeding Holstein calves in high-altitude regions.		[Zhang, Xinyu; Cao, Zhijun; Yang, Hongjian; Wang, Yajing; Wang, Wei; Li, Shengli] China Agr Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, State Key Lab Anim Nutr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Li, Shengli] China Agr Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, State Key Lab Anim Nutr, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Microbiology	WOS:000931127800001		
J	Ong, Seeu Si; Xu, Jia; Sim, Choon Kiat; Khng, Alexis Jiaying; Ho, Peh Joo; Kwan, Philip Kam Weng; Ravikrishnan, Aarthi; Tan, Kiat-Tee Benita; Tan, Qing Ting; Tan, Ern Yu; Tan, Su-Ming; Putti, Thomas Choudary; Lim, Swee Ho; Tang, Ee Ling Serene; Nagarajan, Niranjan; Karnani, Neerja; Li, Jingmei; Hartman, Mikael								Profiling Microbial Communities in Idiopathic Granulomatous Mastitis								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MOLECULAR SCIENCES				24	2					1042	10.3390/ijms24021042			JAN 2023	2023	Idiopathic granulomatous mastitis (IGM) is a rare and benign inflammatory breast disease with ambiguous aetiology. Contrastingly, lactational mastitis (LM) is commonly diagnosed in breastfeeding women. To investigate IGM aetiology, we profiled the microbial flora of pus and skin in patients with IGM and LM. A total of 26 patients with IGM and 6 patients with LM were included in the study. The 16S rRNA sequencing libraries were constructed from 16S rRNA gene amplified from total DNA extracted from pus and skin swabs in patients with IGM and LM controls. Constructed libraries were multiplexed and paired-end sequenced on HiSeq4000. Metagenomic analysis was conducted using modified microbiome abundance analysis suite customised R-resource for paired pus and skin samples. Microbiome multivariable association analyses were performed using linear models. A total of 21 IGM and 3 LM paired pus and skin samples underwent metagenomic analysis. Bray-Curtis ecological dissimilarity distance showed dissimilarity across four sample types (IGM pus, IGM skin, LM pus, and LM skin; PERMANOVA, p < 0.001). No characteristic dominant genus was observed across the IGM samples. The IGM pus samples were more diverse than corresponding IGM skin samples (Shannon and Simpson index; Wilcoxon paired signed-rank tests, p = 0.022 and p = 0.07). Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii, reportedly associated with IGM in the literature, was higher in IGM pus samples than paired skin samples (Wilcoxon, p = 0.022). Three other species and nineteen genera were statistically significant in paired IGM pus-skin comparison after antibiotic treatment adjustment and multiple comparisons correction. Microbial profiles are unique between patients with IGM and LM. Inter-patient variability and polymicrobial IGM pus samples cannot implicate specific genus or species as an infectious cause for IGM.		[Ong, Seeu Si; Khng, Alexis Jiaying; Ho, Peh Joo; Li, Jingmei] Genome Inst Singapore, Agcy Sci, Womens Hlth & Genet, Technol & Res, Singapore 138672, Singapore; [Ong, Seeu Si; Ho, Peh Joo; Li, Jingmei; Hartman, Mikael] Natl Univ Singapore, Yong Loo Lin Sch Med, Dept Surg, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Xu, Jia; Sim, Choon Kiat; Karnani, Neerja] Singapore Inst Clin Sci, Agcy Sci Technol & Res, Human Dev, Singapore 117609, Singapore; [Ho, Peh Joo; Hartman, Mikael] Natl Univ Singapore, Sch Publ Hlth, Saw Swee Hock, Singapore 117549, Singapore; [Kwan, Philip Kam Weng; Nagarajan, Niranjan] Natl Univ Singapore, Yong Loo Lin Sch Med, Dept Med, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Ravikrishnan, Aarthi; Nagarajan, Niranjan] Genome Inst Singapore, Agcy Sci Technol & Res, Metagen Technol & Microbial Syst, Singapore 138672, Singapore; [Tan, Kiat-Tee Benita] Natl Canc Ctr Singapore, Div Surg Oncol, Singapore 169610, Singapore; [Tan, Kiat-Tee Benita] Singapore Gen Hosp, Dept Breast Surg, Singapore 169608, Singapore; [Tan, Kiat-Tee Benita] Sengkang Gen Hosp, Dept Gen Surg, Singapore 544886, Singapore; [Tan, Qing Ting; Lim, Swee Ho] KK Womens & Childrens Hosp, KK Breast Dept, Singapore 229899, Singapore; [Tan, Ern Yu; Tang, Ee Ling Serene] Tan Tock Seng Hosp, Dept Gen Surg, Singapore 308433, Singapore; [Tan, Ern Yu] Nanyang Technol Univ, Lee Kong Chian Sch Med, Singapore 308232, Singapore; [Tan, Ern Yu] Inst Mol & Cell Biol, Agcy Sci Technol & Res, Singapore 138673, Singapore; [Tan, Su-Ming] Changi Gen Hosp, Div Breast Surg, Singapore 529889, Singapore; [Putti, Thomas Choudary] Natl Univ Hlth Syst, Dept Pathol, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Tang, Ee Ling Serene] Woodlands Hlth Campus, Dept Surg, Singapore 768024, Singapore; [Karnani, Neerja] Agcy Sci Technol & Res, Bioinformat Inst, Data Hub Div, Singapore 138671, Singapore; [Karnani, Neerja] Natl Univ Singapore, Yong Loo Lin Sch Med, Dept Biochem, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Hartman, Mikael] Univ Surg Cluster, Natl Univ Hlth Syst, Dept Surg, Singapore 119228, Singapore; [Li, Jingmei] Genome Inst Singapore, Agcy Sci, Womens Hlth & Genet, Technol & Res, Singapore 138672, Singapore; [Li, Jingmei] Natl Univ Singapore, Yong Loo Lin Sch Med, Dept Surg, Singapore 119228, Singapore								4							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Chemistry, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000915612400001		
J	Wilson, Natalie R.; Norman, Laura M.								Five Year Analyses of Vegetation Response to Restoration using Rock Detention Structures in Southeastern Arizona, United States								ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT				71	5			921	939		10.1007/s00267-022-01762-0			MAY 2023	2023	Rock detention structures (RDS) are used in restoration of riparian areas around the world. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of RDS installation on vegetation in terms of species abundance and composition. We present the results from 5 years of annual vegetation sampling which focused on short term non-woody vegetation response within the riparian channel at 3 restoration sites across southeastern Arizona. We examined the potential ways that RDS can preserve native species, encourage wetland species, and/or introduce nonnative species using a Control-Impact-Paired-Series study design. Species composition and frequency were measured within quadrats and zones on an annual basis. Multivariate bootstrap analyses were performed, including Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination. We found that response to RDS was variable and could be related to the level of degradation or proximity to groundwater. The non-degraded site did not show a response to RDS and the severely degraded site showed a slight increase in vegetation frequency, but the moderately degraded site experienced a significant increase. At the moderately degraded site, located between two historic cienegas (desert wetlands), species composition shifted and nonnative species invaded, dominating the vegetation increase at this location. At the severely degraded site, pre-existing wetland species frequency increased in response to the installation of RDS. These findings extend the understanding of RDS effects on vegetation, provide scenarios to help land and water resource managers understand potential outcomes, and can assist in optimizing success for restoration projects.		[Wilson, Natalie R.; Norman, Laura M.] US Geol Survey, Western Geog Sci Ctr, 520 N Pk Ave, Tucson, AZ 85719 USA; [Wilson, Natalie R.] US Geol Survey, Western Geog Sci Ctr, 520 N Pk Ave, Tucson, AZ 85719 USA								4							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000900778700001		
J	Jiang, Peiwen; Zhang, Shuai; Xu, Shannan; Xiong, Pengli; Cao, Yiting; Chen, Zuozhi; Li, Min								Comparison of environmental DNA metabarcoding and bottom trawling for detecting seasonal fish communities and habitat preference in a highly disturbed estuary								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				146						109754	10.1016/j.ecolind.2022.109754			FEB 2023	2023	Environmental DNA (eDNA) metabarcoding has been used to study fish diversity in various aquatic ecosystems. However, studies on fish community structure in estuarine ecosystems have not been well corroborated by eDNA metabarcoding, and comparisons with bottom trawling are lacking. We used eDNA sequencing of mitochondrial 12S rRNA gene to investigate the fish species composition and relative abundance, community temporal and spatial variations, and community-environment relationship of the Pearl River Estuary during spring and autumn. Then, we compared these results with those obtained by bottom trawling. Results showed that eDNA metabarcoding detected more species (214 vs 90), genera (148 vs 69), families (67 vs 38), and a significantly greater number of species at each station. Results of nonmetric multidimensional scaling and permutational multivariate analysis of variance based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index indicated that eDNA metabarcoding detected significant differences in fish communities between spring and autumn, which was similar to the bottom trawling results. eDNA metabarcoding revealed that the fish community differences increased with spatial distance among stations. However, when we compared results of the two methods using principal coordinates analysis, we observed discordance in the fish community differences among sites. eDNA metabarcoding may provide new insights into and a more detailed and comprehensive understanding of estuarine ecosystems. Additionally, eDNA metabarcoding revealed that salinity and temperature were closely linked to fish community composition in spring, and salinity and dissolved oxygen were closely associated with fish community composition in autumn. In conclusion, eDNA metabarcoding may represent an important supplementary method, or even replace current methods, to monitor and assess temporal and spatial variation of fish communities and infer the community-environment relationship, especially in estuarine ecosystems, which are difficult to sample using traditional methods.		[Jiang, Peiwen; Zhang, Shuai; Xu, Shannan; Xiong, Pengli; Cao, Yiting; Chen, Zuozhi; Li, Min] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Xu, Shannan; Li, Min] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Open sea Fishery, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Li, Min] Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zuozhi; Li, Min] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China								8							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000900187500005		
J	Calvao, Lenize B.; Siqueira, Tadeu; Faria, Ana Paula J.; Paiva, Carina K. S.; Juen, Leandro								Correlates of Odonata species composition in Amazonian streams depend on dissimilarity coefficient and oviposition strategy								ECOLOGICAL ENTOMOLOGY				47	6			998	1010		10.1111/een.13188			DEC 2022	2022	Environmental and spatial heterogeneity affects the distribution of aquatic insects, determining or influencing the variation in local species composition. Dragonflies and damselflies (Odonata) have different strategies for oviposition site selection that depend on environmental conditions. However, Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) can reduce the availability of suitable sites for Odonata oviposition through environmental homogenization. We investigated the relationship between environmental and spatial heterogeneity and variation in species composition of Odonata with different oviposition strategies (endophytic, epiphytic and exophytic) in Amazonian streams in a gradient of LULC. We used the Jaccard and Bray-Curtis coefficients and the Manhattan distance to estimate a continuum of variation in species composition. Variation in the composition of endophytic and epiphytic species was explained by spatial heterogeneity. Using abundance data and the Manhattan distance, we found a relationship between variation in species composition and environmental heterogeneity. Endophytic species composition was related to perch heterogeneity, while exophytic species composition was related to perch and canopy cover heterogeneity. Exophytic and endophytic species could be used in biomonitoring as they respond to specific environmental predictors and because exophytic species do not have spatial patterns across the landscape. Different dissimilarity coefficients provide complementary information about the responses of multispecies communities to land use, as some will represent strong effects (presence-absence indexes) while others will represent more subtle effects (abundance-based indexes). Land use can increase the environmental heterogeneity of some predictors (perches and canopy cover). Physical changes in streams such as hydromorphological alterations can modify specific habitats, affecting oviposition strategies and supporting tolerant species.		[Calvao, Lenize B.; Faria, Ana Paula J.; Juen, Leandro] Univ Fed Para UFPA, Lab Ecol & Conservacao LABECO, Inst Ciencias Biol ICB, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Calvao, Lenize B.] Univ Fed Amapa, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Ambientais PPGCA, Macapa, Brazil; [Calvao, Lenize B.; Paiva, Carina K. S.] Univ Fed Para UFPA, Lab Ecol & Conservacao LABECO, Inst Ciencias Biol ICB, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Siqueira, Tadeu] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Inst Biociencias, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Calvao, Lenize B.] Univ Fed Para UFPA, Lab Ecol & Conservacao LABECO, Inst Ciencias Biol ICB, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Belem, Para, Brazil								1							Entomology	WOS:000877580900010		
J	Fregulia, Priscila; Campos, Mariana Magalhaes; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso; Liu, Junhong; Guo, Wei; Pereira, Luiz Gustavo Ribeiro; Machado, Marco Antonio; Faza, Daniele Ribeiro de Lima Reis; Guan, Le Luo; Garnsworthy, Phil C.; Neves, Andre Luis Alves								Taxonomic and predicted functional signatures reveal linkages between the rumen microbiota and feed efficiency in dairy cattle raised in tropical areas								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						1025173	10.3389/fmicb.2022.1025173			NOV 29 2022	2022	Ruminants digest plant biomass more efficiently than monogastric animals due to their symbiotic relationship with a complex microbiota residing in the rumen environment. What remains unclear is the relationship between the rumen microbial taxonomic and functional composition and feed efficiency (FE), especially in crossbred dairy cattle (Holstein x Gyr) raised under tropical conditions. In this study, we selected twenty-two F1 Holstein x Gyr heifers and grouped them according to their residual feed intake (RFI) ranking, high efficiency (HE) (n = 11) and low efficiency (LE) (n = 11), to investigate the effect of FE on the rumen microbial taxa and their functions. Rumen fluids were collected using a stomach tube apparatus and analyzed using amplicon sequencing targeting the 16S (bacteria and archaea) and 18S (protozoa) rRNA genes. Alpha-diversity and beta-diversity analysis revealed no significant difference in the rumen microbiota between the HE and LE animals. Multivariate analysis (sPLS-DA) showed a clear separation of two clusters in bacterial taxonomic profiles related to each FE group, but in archaeal and protozoal profiles, the clusters overlapped. The sPLS-DA also revealed a clear separation in functional profiles for bacteria, archaea, and protozoa between the HE and LE animals. Microbial taxa were differently related to HE (e.g., Howardella and Shuttleworthia) and LE animals (e.g., Eremoplastron and Methanobrevibacter), and predicted functions were significatively different for each FE group (e.g., K03395-signaling and cellular process was strongly related to HE animals, and K13643-genetic information processing was related to LE animals). This study demonstrates that differences in the rumen microbiome relative to FE ranking are not directly observed from diversity indices (Faith's Phylogenetic Diversity, Pielou's Evenness, Shannon's diversity, weighted UniFrac distance, Jaccard index, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), but from targeted identification of specific taxa and microbial functions characterizing each FE group. These results shed light on the role of rumen microbial taxonomic and functional profiles in crossbred Holstein x Gyr dairy cattle raised in tropical conditions, creating the possibility of using the microbial signature of the HE group as a biological tool for the development of biomarkers that improve FE in ruminants.		[Fregulia, Priscila; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Lab Protozool, Inst Ciencias Biol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Fregulia, Priscila; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Programa Pos Grad Biodiversidade & Conservacao Nat, Inst Ciencias Biol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Campos, Mariana Magalhaes; Pereira, Luiz Gustavo Ribeiro; Machado, Marco Antonio; Faza, Daniele Ribeiro de Lima Reis] Brazilian Agr Res Corp Empresa Brasileira Pesquisa, Natl Ctr Res Dairy Cattle, EMBRAPA, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Liu, Junhong; Guan, Le Luo] Univ Alberta, Dept Agr Food & Nutr Sci, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Guo, Wei] Guizhou Univ, Key Lab Anim Genet Breeding & Reprod Plateau Mount, Minist Educ, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Garnsworthy, Phil C.] Univ Nottingham, Sch Biosci, Loughborough, England; [Neves, Andre Luis Alves] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Vet & Anim Sci, Frederiksberg, Denmark; [Neves, Andre Luis Alves] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Vet & Anim Sci, Frederiksberg, Denmark								2							Microbiology	WOS:000897838800001		
J	Halverson, Thomas; Mueller, Elizabeth R.; Brubaker, Linda; Wolfe, Alan J.								Urobiome changes differ based on OAB treatment in adult females								INTERNATIONAL UROGYNECOLOGY JOURNAL				34	6			1271	1277		10.1007/s00192-022-05416-x			JUN 2023	2023	Introduction and hypothesis Representatives of two classes of oral medication are often used to treat urgency urinary incontinence (UUI): solifenacin, an M3-receptor-selective antimuscarinic, and mirabegron, a beta-3 agonist. Two previous asynchronous drug-specific studies suggested different interactions between these medications and the urobiome despite identical methodologies, including recruitment, sample procurement, medication dose escalation strategy, determination of 12-week responders versus nonresponders, and data collection. This analysis compares data from these two studies using a uniform analytic approach. Methods Urine was collected aseptically via transurethral catheter from consenting participants for subsequent processing by the Expanded Quantitative Urine Culture (EQUC) protocol in two cohorts (n=50 and n=47) that were demographically similar. Species accumulation curves were generated to compare the total number of unique species detected. Indices that measure richness, evenness, and/or abundance were used to compare alpha (within sample) diversity. The Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index was used to determine between sample (beta) diversity. Results The majority of the 40 species detected in the pre-treatment urobiomes were detected in both cohorts. Both pre-treatment urobiomes were substantially similar in species richness, evenness, and diversity. Differences in pre-treatment urobiomes were associated with treatment response for solifenacin-treated participants only. In contrast, the pre-treatment urobiomes of mirabegron-treated participants were not associated with treatment response. Changes in the post-treatment urobiomes were detected in both cohorts with an increase in richness for both solifenacin (5-mg dose only) and mirabegron. Conclusions Pre-treatment urobiome characteristics were associated with treatment response in participants treated with solifenacin, but not mirabegron. Differences exist in urobiome response after treatment with two medications that have known differences in mechanism of action.		[Halverson, Thomas; Wolfe, Alan J.] Loyola Univ Chicago, Stritch Sch Med, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Mueller, Elizabeth R.] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Urol, Div Female Pelv Med & Reconstruct Surg, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Mueller, Elizabeth R.] Loyola Univ Med Ctr, Dept Obstet Gynecol, Div Female Pelv Med & Reconstruct Surg, Maywood, IL 60153 USA; [Brubaker, Linda] Univ Calif San Diego, Dept Obstet Gynecol & Reprod Sci, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA; [Wolfe, Alan J.] Loyola Univ Chicago, Stritch Sch Med, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Maywood, IL 60153 USA								1							Obstetrics & Gynecology; Urology & Nephrology	WOS:000887897100001		
J	Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Costalonga, Massimo; Nixdorf, Donald; Dietz, Matthew; Schuweiler, David; Lima, Bruno P.; Staley, Christopher								Taxonomic abundance in primary and secondary root canal infections								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL				56	2			278	288		10.1111/iej.13864			FEB 2023	2023	AimTo evaluate the root canal microbiome composition in cases of primary and secondary apical periodontitis. MethodologyThirty-nine samples from patients with primary root canal infections obtained before root canal treatment, and 40 samples obtained during root-end resection procedures from previously filled cases with apical periodontitis were evaluated using 16S rRNA next-generation sequencing analysis (NGS). Demographic and clinical factors included age, sex, infection type, percussion sensitivity, and presence of pain. Differences in abundances of genera were evaluated using Kruskal-Wallis test. Alpha and beta diversity indices were calculated using mothur. The Shannon and Chao1 indices were used to measure alpha diversity. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was used to measure beta diversity. Differences in community composition were evaluated using analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. ResultsSignificantly fewer operational taxonomic units values were observed from samples from secondary infections (p < .0001). While no significant differences were observed in the Chao 1 index between primary and secondary infections, the Shannon alpha diversity was significantly lower in secondary relative to primary infections (p = .008). Among samples, sex, age (adult vs. older adult), percussion sensitivity, and presence of pain all showed no significant effects on community composition via an analysis of similarity (ANOSIM). However, community composition was significantly different depending on whether the sample was from a primary or secondary infection (R = .051, p = .03). Nine microbial genera comprised the predominant taxa observed among samples (>3.3%) and included Parvimonas, Fusobacterium, Campylobacter, Arachnia, Eubacterium, Prevotella, Peptostreptococcus, Fretibacterirum, and Pseudoramibacter. Significantly greater relative abundances of Prevotella, Peptostreptococcus, Veillonella, Lactucaseibacillus, and Dialister were observed in primary infections. ConclusionsPrimary endodontic infections are more diverse than secondary infections. The microbial composition is not associated with the clinical manifestations of apical periodontitis.		[Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Schuweiler, David] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Restorat Sci, Div Endodont, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo; Lima, Bruno P.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, Div Basic Sci, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Nixdorf, Donald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, Div TMJ & Orofacial Pain, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Dietz, Matthew; Staley, Christopher] Univ Minnesota, Dept Surg, Div Basic & Translat Res, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo] Univ Minnesota, Div Basic Sci, Sch Dent, 7-368 Moos Hlth Sci Tower, 515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Div Endodont, Sch Dent, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Costalonga, Massimo] Univ Minnesota, Div Basic Sci, Sch Dent, 7-368 Moos Hlth Sci Tower, 515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Div Endodont, Sch Dent, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								4							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000888097000001		
J	El Hamss, Hajar; Maruthi, M. N.; Ally, Hadija M.; Omongo, Christopher A.; Wang, Hua-Ling; van Brunschot, Sharon; Colvin, John; Delatte, Helene								Spatio-temporal changes in endosymbiont diversity and composition in the African cassava whitefly, <i>Bemisia tabaci</i> SSA1								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						986226	10.3389/fmicb.2022.986226			NOV 18 2022	2022	Sap-sucking insects, including whiteflies, are amongst the most devastating and widely distributed organisms on the planet. They are often highly invasive and endosymbiont communities within these insects help them adapt to new or changing environments. Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius; Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) whitefly species are vectors of more than 500 known plant-viruses and harbour highly diverse endosymbionts communities. To date, however, whitefly-endosymbiont interactions, community structure and their spatio-temporal changes are still poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the spatio-temporal changes in the composition and diversity of bacterial endosymbionts in the agricultural crop pest whitefly species, Bemisia tabaci sub-Saharan Africa 1-subgroup 1 and 2 (SSA1-SG1 and SSA1-SG2). 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing analysis was carried out to characterise endosymbiont compositionsin field-collected SSA1 (SSA1-SG1 and SSA1-SG2) populations infesting cassava in Uganda in 1997 and 2017. We detected Portiera, Arsenophonus, Wolbachia, Hamiltonella and Hemipteriphilus, with Arsenophonus and Wolbachia infections being predominant. Hemipteriphilus and Hamiltonella frequencies were very low and were detected in seven and two samples, respectively. Bacterial diversity based on three independent parameters including Simpson index, number of haplotypes and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix was significantly higher in 1997 than in 2017. This period also coincided with the advent of super-abundant cassava-whitefly populations on cassava crops in Uganda. We discuss how endosymbionts may influence the biology and behaviour of whiteflies leading to population explosions.		[El Hamss, Hajar; Maruthi, M. N.; van Brunschot, Sharon; Colvin, John] Univ Greenwich, Nat Resources Inst, Cent Ave, Chatham, Kent, England; [Ally, Hadija M.; Delatte, Helene] CIRAD, UMR PVBMT, St Pierre, France; [Ally, Hadija M.] Tanzania Agr Res Inst Ukiriguru, Mwanza, Tanzania; [Omongo, Christopher A.] Natl Crops Resource Res Inst RCP NaCRRI, Root Crops Programme, Kampala, Uganda; [Wang, Hua-Ling] Zhejiang Univ, Inst Insect Sci, Minist Agr, Key Lab Mol Biol Crop Pathogens & Insects, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [van Brunschot, Sharon] Univ Queensland, Sch Biol Sci, Brisbane, Qld, Australia; [El Hamss, Hajar] Univ Greenwich, Nat Resources Inst, Cent Ave, Chatham, Kent, England; [Delatte, Helene] CIRAD, UMR PVBMT, St Pierre, France								1							Microbiology	WOS:000910740000001		
J	Wells, Philippa M.; Sprockett, Daniel D.; Bowyer, Ruth C. E.; Kurushima, Yuko; Relman, David A.; Williams, Frances M. K.; Steves, Claire J.								Influential factors of saliva microbiota composition								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				12	1					18894	10.1038/s41598-022-23266-x			NOV 7 2022	2022	The oral microbiota is emerging as an influential factor of host physiology and disease state. Factors influencing oral microbiota composition have not been well characterised. In particular, there is a lack of population-based studies. We undertook a large hypothesis-free study of the saliva microbiota, considering potential influential factors of host health (frailty; diet; periodontal disease), demographics (age; sex; BMI) and sample processing (storage time), in a sample (n = 679) of the TwinsUK cohort of adult twins. Alpha and beta diversity of the saliva microbiota was associated most strongly with frailty (alpha diversity: beta = -0.16, Q = 0.003, Observed; beta = -0.16, Q = 0.002, Shannon; beta = -0.16, Q = 0.003, Simpson; Beta diversity: Q = 0.002, Bray Curtis dissimilarity) and age (alpha diversity: beta = 0.15, Q = 0.006, Shannon; beta = 0.12, Q = 0.003, Simpson; beta diversity: Q = 0.002, Bray Curtis dissimilarity; Q = 0.032, Weighted UniFrac) in multivariate models including age, frailty, sex, BMI, frailty and diet, and adjustment for multiple testing. Those with a more advanced age were more likely to be dissimilar in the saliva microbiota composition than younger participants (P = 5.125e-06, ANOVA). In subsample analyses, including consideration of periodontal disease (total n = 138, periodontal disease n = 66), the association with frailty remained for alpha diversity (Q = 0.002, Observed ASVs; Q = 0.04 Shannon Index), but not beta diversity, whilst age was not demonstrated to associate with alpha or beta diversity in this subsample, potentially due to insufficient statistical power. Length of time that samples were stored prior to sequencing was associated with beta diversity (Q = 0.002, Bray Curtis dissimilarity). Six bacterial taxa were associated with age after adjustment for frailty and diet. Of the factors studied, frailty and age emerged as the most influential with regards to saliva microbiota composition. Whilst age and frailty are correlates, the associations were independent of each other, giving precedence to both biological and chronological ageing as processes of potential importance when considering saliva microbiota composition.		[Wells, Philippa M.; Bowyer, Ruth C. E.; Kurushima, Yuko; Williams, Frances M. K.; Steves, Claire J.] Kings Coll London, St Thomas Hosp, Dept Twin Res, London, England; [Sprockett, Daniel D.; Relman, David A.] Stanford Univ, Sch Med, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Relman, David A.] Stanford Univ, Sch Med, Dept Med, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Relman, David A.] Vet Affairs Palo Alto Hlth Care Syst, Infect Dis Sect, Palo Alto, CA 94304 USA; [Steves, Claire J.] Kings Coll London, St Thomas Hosp, Dept Twin Res, London, England								3							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000879914800042		
J	Leibovitzh, Haim; Lee, Sun-Ho; Xue, Mingyue; Garay, Juan Antonio Raygoza; Hernandez-Rocha, Cristian; Madsen, Karen L.; Meddings, Jonathan B.; Guttman, David S.; Espin-Garcia, Osvaldo; Smith, Michelle, I; Goethel, Ashleigh; Griffiths, Anne M.; Moayyedi, Paul; Steinhart, A. Hillary; Panaccione, Remo; Huynh, Hien Q.; Jacobson, Kevan; Aumais, Guy; Mack, David R.; Abreu, Maria T.; Bernstein, Charles N.; Marshall, John K.; Turner, Dan; Xu, Wei; Turpin, Williams; Croitoru, Kenneth		CCC GEM Project Res Consortium						Altered Gut Microbiome Composition and Function Are Associated With Gut Barrier Dysfunction in Healthy Relatives of Patients With Crohn's Disease								GASTROENTEROLOGY				163	5			1364	+		10.1053/j.gastro.2022.07.004			NOV 2022	2022	BACKGROUND & AIMS: The gut microbiome has been suggested to play a role in gut barrier hemostasis, but data are scarce and limited to animal studies. We therefore aimed to assess whether alterations in gut microbial composition and functional pathways are associated with gut barrier function in a cohort of healthy first -degree relatives of patients with Crohn's disease. METHODS: We used the Crohn's and Colitis Canada Genetic Environmental Mi-crobial (CCC-GEM) cohort of healthy first-degree relatives of patients with Crohn's disease. Gut barrier function was assessed using the urinary fractional excretion of lactulose-to-mannitol ra-tio (LMR). Microbiome composition was assessed by sequencing fecal 16S ribosomal RNA. The cohort was divided into a discovery cohort (n = 2472) and a validation cohort (n = 655). A regression model was used to assess microbial associations with the LMR. A random forest classifier algorithm was performed to assess mi-crobial community contribution to barrier function. RESULTS: Individuals with impaired barrier function (LMR >0.025) had reduced alpha-diversity (Chao1 index, P = 4.0e-4) and altered beta-diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, R2 = 0.001, P = 1.0e-3) compared with individuals with an LMR <0.025. When taxa were assessed individually, we identified 8 genera and 52 microbial pathways associated with an LMR >0.025 (q < 0.05). Four genera (decreased prevalence of Adlercreutzia, Clostridia UCG 014, and Clostridium sensu stricto 1 and increased abundance of Colidextribacter) and 8 pathways (including decreased biosyn-thesis of glutamate, tryptophan, and threonine) were replicated in the validation cohort. The random forest approach revealed that the bacterial community is associated with gut barrier function (area under the curve, 0.63; P=1.4e-6). CONCLUSIONS: The gut microbiome community and pathways are associated with changes in gut barrier function. These findings may identify potential microbial targets to modulate gut barrier.		[Leibovitzh, Haim; Lee, Sun-Ho; Xue, Mingyue; Garay, Juan Antonio Raygoza; Hernandez-Rocha, Cristian; Smith, Michelle, I; Goethel, Ashleigh; Steinhart, A. Hillary; Turpin, Williams; Croitoru, Kenneth] Mt Sinai Hosp, Zane Cohen Ctr Digest Dis, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Leibovitzh, Haim; Lee, Sun-Ho; Garay, Juan Antonio Raygoza; Hernandez-Rocha, Cristian; Steinhart, A. Hillary; Turpin, Williams; Croitoru, Kenneth] Univ Toronto, Temerty Fac Med, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, 600 Univ Ave,Room 437, Toronto, ON M5G 1X5, Canada; [Madsen, Karen L.] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Meddings, Jonathan B.] Cumming Sch Med, Dept Med, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Guttman, David S.] Univ Toronto, Dept Cell & Syst Biol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Guttman, David S.] Univ Toronto, Ctr Anal Genome Evolut & Funct, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Espin-Garcia, Osvaldo; Xu, Wei] Univ Toronto, Dalla Lana Sch Publ Hlth, Div Biostat, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Griffiths, Anne M.] Univ Toronto, Hosp Sick Children, Fac Med, IBD Ctr,Dept Paediat, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Moayyedi, Paul] McMaster Univ, Famcombe Family Digest Hlth Res Inst, Dept Med, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Panaccione, Remo] Univ Calgary, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Inflammatory Bowel Dis Clin, Calgary, AB, Canada; [Huynh, Hien Q.] Univ Alberta, Fac Med & Dent, Dept Pediat, Div Gastroenterol & Nutr, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Jacobson, Kevan] Canadian Gastrointestinal Epidemiol Consortium, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Jacobson, Kevan] Univ British Columbia, British Columbia Childrens Hosp, Res Inst, Vancouver, BC, Canada; [Aumais, Guy] Univ Montreal, Dept Med, Hop Maisonneuve Rosemont, Montreal, PQ, Canada; [Mack, David R.] Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario, Div Gastroenterol Hepatol & Nutr, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Mack, David R.] Univ Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Abreu, Maria T.] Univ Miami, Miller Sch Med, Div Gastroenterol, Crohns & Colitis Ctr, Miami, FL 33136 USA; [Bernstein, Charles N.] Univ Manitoba, Inflammatory Bowel Dis Clin & Res Ctr, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Bernstein, Charles N.] Univ Manitoba, Max Rady Coll Med, Rady Fac Hlth Sci, Dept Internal Med, Winnipeg, MB, Canada; [Marshall, John K.] McMaster Univ, Farncombe Family Digest Hlth Res Inst, Dept Med, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Turner, Dan] Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Shaare Zedek Med Ctr, Juliet Keidan Inst Pediat Gastroenterol & Nutr, Jerusalem, Israel; [Croitoru, Kenneth] Univ Toronto, Temerty Fac Med, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, 600 Univ Ave,Room 437, Toronto, ON M5G 1X5, Canada; [Croitoru, Kenneth] Univ Toronto, Div Gastroenterol, Zane Cohen Ctr Digest Dis, 600 Univ Ave,Room 437, Toronto, ON M5G 1X5, Canada								36							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000876982100003		
J	Ritchie, Gabrielle; Strodl, Esben; Parham, Sophie; Bambling, Matthew; Cramb, Susanna; Vitetta, Luis								An exploratory study of the gut microbiota in major depression with anxious distress								JOURNAL OF AFFECTIVE DISORDERS				320				595	604		10.1016/j.jad.2022.10.001			JAN 1 2023	2023	Objectives: To explore differences in the diversity and composition of the gut microbiome between major depressive disorder (MDD) with and without anxious distress.Methods: The study comprised 117 participants (79 female, 36 male, 2 other, mean age 38.2 +/- 13.4 years) with a current major depressive episode (MDE) with (n = 63) and without (n = 54) the anxious distress specifier. A clinical psychologist administered the structured clinical interview for the DSM-5-RV to confirm a diagnosis of depression. Participants provided stool samples which were immediately frozen and stored at-80 degrees C. These samples were analysed using the Illumina 16S Metagenomics sequencing protocol in which the sequencing primers target the V3 and V4 regions of the 16S rRNA gene. Participants also completed mental health ques-tionnaires to assess severity of depression (BDI-II), generalized anxiety (GAD-7), and stress (PSS).Results: There were no significant group differences in alpha-diversity (Shannon's diversity Index; Simpson Index), richness (ACE; Chao1), (Pielou's) evenness, or beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and weighted UniFrac distance) of gut bacteria. Significant group differences in the relative abundance of gut microbiota however were observed at each taxonomical level, including across 15 genera and 18 species. Limitations: This was an exploratory study that needs to be replicated across larger samples and compared with a healthy control group.Conclusions: The research contributes to knowledge of the depressive gut microbial profile unique to the anxious distress subtype of MDD.		[Ritchie, Gabrielle; Strodl, Esben; Parham, Sophie] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Kelvin Grove, Qld, Australia; [Bambling, Matthew] Univ Queensland, Fac Med, Herston, Qld, Australia; [Cramb, Susanna] Queensland Univ Technol, Australian Ctr Hlth Serv Innovat, Brisbane, Australia; [Cramb, Susanna] Queensland Univ Technol, Ctr Healthcare Transformat, Brisbane, Australia; [Vitetta, Luis] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Vitetta, Luis] Medlab Clin, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ritchie, Gabrielle] Fac Hlth, 66 Musk Ave, Kelvin Grove, Qld 4159, Australia; [Ritchie, Gabrielle] Fac Hlth, 66 Musk Ave, Kelvin Grove, Qld 4159, Australia								5							Clinical Neurology; Psychiatry	WOS:000888135400010		
J	Pyle, Hunter J.; Artami, Methinee; Edwards, Marshall; Raj, Prithvi; Zhang, Bo; Arana, Carlos; Harris-Tryon, Tamia A.								Saprophytic bacteria and fungi colonize stearoyl coenzyme-A desaturase-1 knockout skin								EXPERIMENTAL DERMATOLOGY				32	1			78	84		10.1111/exd.14676			JAN 2023	2023	Lipids synthesized on the skin are critical to the antimicrobial barrier. Skin lipids also facilitate survival of lipophilic skin commensals in an otherwise dry and acidic ecological landscape. Thus, skin-specific stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturase 1 knockout mice (Scd1(Delta K14)) with sebocyte atrophy and decreased synthesis of monounsaturated fatty acids, triglycerides and wax diesters have dry, inflamed skin. Here, we used 16S rRNA (V1-V2 and V1-V9) and internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) amplicon sequencing to compare bacterial and fungal skin microbiomes between Scd1(Delta K14) mice and wildtype control mice (Scd1(fl/fl)) in a barrier facility. Saprophytic bacteria including Sporosarcina spp. and Staphylococcus lentus and saprophytic fungi including Alternaria infectoria were found in higher relative abundance in the Scd1(Delta K14) group (ANCOM). Analysis of community diversity (Shannon index) revealed greater fungal alpha diversity in the Scd1(Delta K14) group (p = 0.009, Kruskal-Wallis). Principal coordinates analysis (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) showed that both bacterial (p = 0.002, PERMANOVA) and fungal communities (p = 0.006, PERMANOVA) of the Scd1(Delta K14) group were unique from the wildtype group. Altogether, these results suggest that sebaceous gland-derived lipids normally restrict the skin microbiome, and in the absence of these lipids, a greater diversity of opportunistic organisms are able to colonize the surface of skin.		[Pyle, Hunter J.; Artami, Methinee; Edwards, Marshall; Harris-Tryon, Tamia A.] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr Dallas, Dept Dermatol, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX 75390 USA; [Raj, Prithvi; Zhang, Bo; Arana, Carlos; Harris-Tryon, Tamia A.] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr Dallas, Dept Immunol, Dallas, TX 75390 USA; [Harris-Tryon, Tamia A.] Univ Texas Southwestern Med Ctr Dallas, Dept Dermatol, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, TX 75390 USA								2							Dermatology	WOS:000862949700001		
J	Ogut, Neslihan Demirel; Hascelik, Gulsen; Atakan, Nilgun								Alterations of the Human Gut Microbiome in Patients With Hidradenitis Suppurativa: A Case-control Study and Review of the Literature								DERMATOLOGY PRACTICAL & CONCEPTUAL				12	4					e2022191	10.5826/dpc.1204a191			OCT 2022	2022	Introduction: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic and systemic inflammatory disease that extends beyond the skin. The role of gut microbiome (GM) alterations in the pathogenesis of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders is remarkable. Objectives: Based on the hypothesis that dysbiosis in the GM may trigger systemic inflammation in the pathogenesis of HS, this study aimed to investigate whether the GM is altered in HS patients compared with healthy subjects. Methods: In the present case-control study, fecal samples from 15 patients with HS and 15 age- and sex-matched healthy individuals were collected and analyzed using 16S rRNA-based metagenomic analysis, New Generation Sequencing (NGS). The V3 and V4-hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rDNA gene were amplified from all samples and sequenced by the Illumina MiSeq platform. Bio-informatics analyses were performed in QIIME2. Results: Shannon alpha diversity index showed significantly reduced diversity in HS patients (P = 0.048). Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity and Jaccard Distance revealed that the gut microbial composition of HS patients was significantly distinctive from that of controls (P = 0.01 and P = 0.007, respectively). The relative abundance of unclassified Clostridiales, unclassified Firmicutes, and Fusicatenibacter in HS was significantly lower than that in controls (P = 0.005, P = 0.029, and P = 0.046, respectively). Conclusions: This study indicated that significant alterations in the GM of HS patients could play a critical role in the pathogenesis of HS and might be a trigger for systemic inflammation. Increased understanding of the pathogenesis of HS will shed light on the new potential therapeutic targets and novel treatment options.		[Ogut, Neslihan Demirel; Atakan, Nilgun] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Dermatol & Venereol, Ankara, Turkey; [Hascelik, Gulsen] Hacettepe Univ, Dept Med Microbiol, Ankara, Turkey; [Ogut, Neslihan Demirel] Usak Univ, Dept Dermatol & Venereol, Usak, Turkey								1							Dermatology	WOS:001044136200023		
J	Dias, Filipe S.; Betancourt, Michael; Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Patricia Maria; Borda-de-Agua, Luis								BetaBayes-A Bayesian Approach for Comparing Ecological Communities								DIVERSITY-BASEL				14	10					858	10.3390/d14100858			OCT 2022	2022	Ecological communities change because of both natural and human factors. Distinguishing between the two is critical to ecology and conservation science. One of the most common approaches for modelling species composition changes is calculating beta diversity indices and then relating index changes to environmental changes. The main difficulty with these analyses is that beta diversity indices are paired comparisons, which means indices calculated with the same community are not independent. Mantel tests and generalised dissimilarity modelling (GDM) are two of the most commonly used statistical procedures for analysing such data, employing randomisation tests to consider the data's dependence. Here, we introduce a Bayesian model-based approach called BetaBayes that explicitly incorporates the data dependence. This approach is based on the Bradley-Terry model, which is a widely used approach for modelling paired comparisons that involves building a standard regression model containing two varying intercepts, one for each community involved in the beta diversity index, that capture their respective contributions. We used BetaBayes to analyse a famous dataset collected in Panama that contains information on multiple 1 ha plots from the rain forests of Panama. We calculated the Bray-Curtis index between all pairs of plots, analysed the relationship between the index and two covariates (geographic distance and elevation), and compared the results of BetaBayes with those from the Mantel test and GDM. BetaBayes has two distinctive features. The first is its flexibility, which allows the user to quickly change it to fit the data structure; namely, by adding varying effects, incorporating spatial autocorrelation, and modelling complex nonlinear relationships. The second is that it provides a clear path for performing model validation and model improvement. BetaBayes avoids hypothesis testing, instead focusing on recreating the data generating process and quantifying all the model configurations that are consistent with the observed data.		[Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado, CIBIO InBio, Campus Agrario Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] Univ Lisbon, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Inst Super Agron, CIBIO InBio,Lab Assoc, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.; Borda-de-Agua, Luis] CIBIO, BIOPOLIS Program Genom Biodivers & Land Planning, Campus Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Betancourt, Michael] Symplectomorphic LLC, New York, NY 10026 USA; [Rodriguez-Gonzalez, Patricia Maria] Univ Lisbon, Ctr Estudos Florestais, Inst Super Agron, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] Univ Porto, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Lab Associado, CIBIO InBio, Campus Agrario Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] Univ Lisbon, Ctr Invest Biodiversidade & Recursos Genet, Inst Super Agron, CIBIO InBio,Lab Assoc, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Dias, Filipe S.] CIBIO, BIOPOLIS Program Genom Biodivers & Land Planning, Campus Vairao, P-4485661 Vairao, Portugal								2							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000872409500001		
J	Yang, Yan; Chen, Yi; Xue, Jiabao; Wang, Yuanyuan; Song, Xinyuan; Li, Yunhe								Impact of Transgenic <i>Cry1Ab</i>/<i>2Aj</i> Maize on Abundance of Non-Target Arthropods in the Field								PLANTS-BASEL				11	19					2520	10.3390/plants11192520			OCT 2022	2022	Transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) maize has broad prospects for application in China. Before commercialization, it is necessary to assess possible ecological impacts, including impacts on non-target arthropods (NTAs) in the field. In the present study, transgenic Bt maize expressing cry1Ab/2Aj and its corresponding non-transformed near isoline were planted under the same environmental and agricultural conditions, and arthropods in the field were collected during the three main growth stages of maize. In a one year trial, the results showed the composition of NTA communities in the transgenic and control maize fields were similar. There were no significant differences for community-level parameters of species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), evenness index (J) and Simpson's dominant concentration (C) between the two types of maize fields. Likewise, a Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and distance analysis showed that Cry1Ab/2Aj toxin exposure did not increase community dissimilarities between Bt and non-Bt maize plots and that the structure of the NTAs community was similar on the two maize varieties. Furthermore, planting of the transgenic cry1Ab/2Aj maize did not affect the density or composition of non-target decomposers, herbivores, predators, parasitoids and pollinator guilds. In summary, our results showed that planting of Bt maize producing Cry1Ab/Cry2Aj proteins do not adversely affect population dynamics and diversity of NTAs.		[Yang, Yan; Xue, Jiabao] Hainan Univ, Key Lab Genet & Germplasm Innovat Trop Special Fo, Minist Educ, Coll Forestry, Haikou 570228, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yan; Wang, Yuanyuan; Li, Yunhe] Chinese Acad Agr Sci, State Key Lab Plant Dis & Insect Pests, Inst Plant Protect, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yi; Xue, Jiabao] Chinese Acad Trop Agr Sci, Inst Trop Biosci & Biotechnol, Haikou 571025, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yi; Xue, Jiabao] Chinese Acad Trop Agr Sci, Sanya Res Inst, Sanya 572022, Peoples R China; [Chen, Yi] Hainan Yazhou Bay Seed Lab, Sanya 572025, Peoples R China; [Song, Xinyuan] Jilin Acad Agr Sci, Agrobiotechnol Res Inst, Changchun 130033, Peoples R China; [Li, Yunhe] Chinese Acad Agr Sci, State Key Lab Plant Dis & Insect Pests, Inst Plant Protect, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China								3							Plant Sciences	WOS:000867115100001		
J	An, Hang; Baskin, Carol C.; Ma, Miaojun								Nonlinear response of the soil seed bank and its role in plant community regeneration with increased grazing disturbance								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY				59	10			2593	2603		10.1111/1365-2664.14259			OCT 2022	2022	The soil seed bank represents valuable rebuilding capital that may rescue an ecosystem from state transition once vegetation has crossed an apparent threshold from the desired to degraded state. However, almost no research has explored the response of transient and persistent seed banks and their role in plant community regeneration along a gradient of wetlands from intact to a seriously degraded state due to increased grazing disturbance. Seven grazing disturbance levels from nondisturbed to highly degraded alpine marsh ecosystems were selected on the eastern Tibetan Plateau. Akaike information criterion (AIC) was used to select the best-fit model to predict the response of the plant community, soil seed bank and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index to increased grazing disturbance. Both the plant community and seed bank showed a nonlinear change with increasing grazing disturbance. Species richness and seed density of the transient seed bank first decreased and then increased with increased disturbance, but the persistent seed bank showed a reverse trend, with an obvious threshold. Species composition of the persistent and transient seed banks exhibited little change compared to the plant community as disturbance increased. Similarities between both the persistent and transient seed banks and plant community also showed a nonlinear change with increased disturbance, while the persistent seed bank had a higher similarity with the plant community than the transient seed bank. Synthesis: At high grazing disturbance, persistent seed banks are more important than transient seed banks in plant community regeneration. Alpine wetland ecosystems have intrinsic resilience because the persistent seed bank has a pool of species above the threshold. However, ecosystem resilience declines if the species pool of the persistent seed bank is depleted below the threshold. The restoration potential of the seed bank has limits, and it will gradually be exhausted when species losses due to increased grazing intensity exceed the threshold of state transition.		[An, Hang; Ma, Miaojun] Lanzhou Univ, Coll Ecol, State Key Lab Grassland & Agroecosyst, Lanzhou, Peoples R China; [Baskin, Carol C.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Biol, Lexington, KY USA; [Baskin, Carol C.] Univ Kentucky, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, Lexington, KY USA; [Ma, Miaojun] Lanzhou Univ, Coll Ecol, State Key Lab Grassland & Agroecosyst, Lanzhou, Peoples R China								7							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000863005700014		
J	Yuan, Xuelian; Wang, Zhina; Li, Changjun; Lv, Kebo; Tian, Geng; Tang, Min; Ji, Lei; Yang, Jialiang								Bacterial biomarkers capable of identifying recurrence or metastasis carry disease severity information for lung cancer								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						1007831	10.3389/fmicb.2022.1007831			SEP 16 2022	2022	BackgroundLocal recurrence and distant metastasis are the main causes of death in patients with lung cancer. Multiple studies have described the recurrence or metastasis of lung cancer at the genetic level. However, association between the microbiome of lung cancer tissue and recurrence or metastasis remains to be discovered. Here, we aimed to identify the bacterial biomarkers capable of distinguishing patients with lung cancer from recurrence or metastasis, and how it related to the severity of patients with lung cancer. MethodsWe applied microbiome pipeline to bacterial communities of 134 non-recurrence and non-metastasis (non-RM) and 174 recurrence or metastasis (RM) samples downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Co-occurrence network was built to explore the bacterial interactions in lung cancer tissue of RM and non-RM. Finally, the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to evaluate the association between bacterial biomarkers and patient survival. ResultsCompared with non-RM, the bacterial community of RM had lower richness and higher Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Interestingly, the co-occurrence network of non-RM was more complex than RM. The top 500 genera in relative abundance obtained an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.72 when discriminating between RM and non-RM. There were significant differences in the relative abundances of Acidovorax, Clostridioides, Succinimonas, and Shewanella, and so on between RM and non-RM. These biomarkers played a role in predicting the survival of lung cancer patients and were significantly associated with lung cancer stage. ConclusionThis study provides the first evidence for the prediction of lung cancer recurrence or metastasis by bacteria in lung cancer tissue. Our results highlights that bacterial biomarkers that distinguish RM and non-RM are also associated with patient survival and disease severity.		[Yuan, Xuelian; Li, Changjun; Lv, Kebo] Ocean Univ China, Sch Math Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Wang, Zhina] Emergency Gen Hosp, Dept Resp & Crit Care, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Tian, Geng; Ji, Lei; Yang, Jialiang] Geneis Beijing Co Ltd, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Tian, Geng; Ji, Lei; Yang, Jialiang] Qingdao Geneis Inst Big Data Min & Precis Med, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Tang, Min] Jiangsu Univ, Sch Life Sci, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Yang, Jialiang] Chifeng Municipal Hosp, Chifeng, Peoples R China; [Li, Changjun] Ocean Univ China, Sch Math Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Ji, Lei; Yang, Jialiang] Geneis Beijing Co Ltd, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ji, Lei; Yang, Jialiang] Qingdao Geneis Inst Big Data Min & Precis Med, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Yang, Jialiang] Chifeng Municipal Hosp, Chifeng, Peoples R China								7							Microbiology	WOS:000862580700001		
J	Xu, Qiangsheng; Huang, Meiqin; Yang, Shu; Li, Xiaoli; Zhao, Huaxian; Tang, Jinli; Jiang, Gonglingxia; Li, Zhuoting; Huang, Yuqing; Dong, Ke; Huang, Liangliang; Li, Nan								Ecological stoichiometry influences phytoplankton alpha and beta diversity rather than the community stability in subtropical bay								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				12	9					e9301	10.1002/ece3.9301			SEP 2022	2022	Numerous studies have shown that changes in environmental factors can significantly impact and shift the structure of phytoplankton communities in marine ecosystems. However, little is known about the association between the ecological stoichiometry of seawater nutrients and phytoplankton community diversity and stability in subtropical bays. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between the phytoplankton community assemblage and seasonal variation in the Beibu Gulf, South China Sea. In this study, we found that the abundance of Bacillariophyceae in spring was relatively greater than in other seasons, whereas the abundance of Coscinodiscophyceae was relatively low in spring and winter but greatly increased in summer and autumn. Values of the alpha diversity indices gradually increased from spring to winter, revealing that seasonal variations shifted the phytoplankton community structure. The regression lines between the average variation degree and the Shannon index and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity values showed significantly positive correlations, indicating that high diversity was beneficial to maintaining community stability. In addition, the ecological stoichiometry of nutrients exhibited significantly positive associations with Shannon index and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, demonstrating that ecological stoichiometry can significantly influence the alpha and beta diversity of phytoplankton communities. The C:N:P ratio was not statistically significantly correlated with average variation degree, suggesting that ecological stoichiometry rarely impacted the community stability. Temperature, nitrate, dissolved inorganic phosphorous, and total dissolved phosphorus were the main drivers of the phytoplankton community assemblage. The results of this study provide new perspectives about what influences phytoplankton community structure and the association between ecological stoichiometry, community diversity, and stability in response to environmental changes.		[Xu, Qiangsheng; Yang, Shu; Zhao, Huaxian; Tang, Jinli; Jiang, Gonglingxia; Li, Zhuoting; Huang, Yuqing; Li, Nan] Nanning Normal Univ, Key Lab Minist Educ Environm Change & Resources U, Guangxi Key Lab Earth Surface Processes & Intelli, Nanning, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Huang, Meiqin] Guangxi Stn Radiat Environm Supervis, Dept Ecol & Environm Guangxi, Nanning, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaoli] Ludong Univ, Sch Agr, Yantai, Peoples R China; [Dong, Ke] Kyonggi Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Suwon, South Korea; [Huang, Liangliang] Guilin Univ Technol, Coll Environm Sci & Engn, Guilin, Peoples R China; [Li, Nan] Nanning Normal Univ, Guangxi Key Lab Earth Surface Processes & Intelli, Key Lab Minist Educ Environm Change & Resources U, 175 East Mingxiu Rd, Nanning 530001, Peoples R China								2							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000851971600001		
J	Kim, Sun-Young; Park, Eunkyo; Lim, Weon-Jeong; Kim, Soo In; Jeon, Sang Won; Chang, Yoosoo; Ryu, Seungho; Kim, Hyung-Lae; Kim, Han-Na								Association Between Gut Microbiota and Depressive Symptoms: A Cross-Sectional Population-Based Study in South Korea								PSYCHOSOMATIC MEDICINE				84	7			757	765		10.1097/PSY.0000000000001111			SEP 2022	2022	Objective This study aimed to investigate the association between gut microbiota and depressive symptoms in a large population cohort of Korean adults. Methods Overall, 1238 participants were included in the study. Participants were categorized into depressed or non-depressed groups, based on the depressive symptoms reported on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Rating Scale for Depression, with a cutoff score of 16, and their fecal microbiota was profiled using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. Several alpha and beta diversity measures were also estimated. The association between depressive symptoms and gut microbiota was analyzed using generalized linear models. The inferred function of the metagenomes was compared between the two groups. Results There were no consistent differences in alpha and beta diversity between the depressed and non-depressed groups. However, the continuous measure of depressive symptoms was inversely associated with one of four measures of alpha diversity (Shannon's diversity, p = .021). We also found a substantial difference between the depressed and non-depressed groups in the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity among the four beta diversity indices (p = .004). Participants whose depressive symptoms exceeded a clinical cutoff score had a lower relative abundance of the genus Faecalibacterium when compared with controls (coefficient = -0.025, q = 0.047). However, the depressed group had a significantly higher abundance of the genus Oscillospira than did the non-depressed group (coefficient = 0.002, q = 0.023). Conclusions Our findings contribute to the identification of potential relationships between the gut microbiota and depressive symptoms and provide useful insights for developing microbiota-based interventions for patients with depressive symptoms.		[Kim, Sun-Young; Lim, Weon-Jeong] Ewha Womans Univ, Dept Psychiat, Seoul Hosp, Seoul, South Korea; [Park, Eunkyo; Kim, Hyung-Lae] Ewha Womans Univ, Mokdong Hosp, Dept Biochem, Coll Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Soo In] Ewha Womans Univ, Coll Med, Dept Psychiat, Seoul, South Korea; [Jeon, Sang Won] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Sch Med, Kangbuk Samsung Hosp, Dept Psychiat, Seoul, South Korea; [Chang, Yoosoo; Ryu, Seungho] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Sch Med, Kangbuk Samsung Hosp, Ctr Cohort Studies,Total Healthcare Ctr, Seoul, South Korea; [Chang, Yoosoo; Ryu, Seungho] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Sch Med, Kangbuk Samsung Hosp, Dept Occupat & Environm Med, Seoul, South Korea; [Chang, Yoosoo; Ryu, Seungho; Kim, Han-Na] Sungkyunkwan Univ, SAIHST, Dept Clin Res Design & Evaluat, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Han-Na] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Sch Med, Kangbuk Samsung Hosp, Med Res Inst, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Han-Na] Sungkyunkwan Univ, SAIHST, Dept Clin Res Design & Evaluat, Seoul, South Korea; [Kim, Han-Na] Sungkyunkwan Univ, Sch Med, Kangbuk Samsung Hosp, Med Res Inst, Seoul, South Korea								2							Psychiatry; Psychology; Psychology, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000847807800007		
J	Coaguila-Llerena, Hernan; Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Staley, Christopher; Dietz, Matthew; Chen, Ruoqiong; Faria, Gisele								Multispecies biofilm removal by a multisonic irrigation system in mandibular molars								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL				55	11			1252	1261		10.1111/iej.13813			NOV 2022	2022	Aim The aim of the study was to assess biofilm removal efficacy of GentleWave System and passive ultrasonic irrigation (PUI). Methodology Twenty-two human mandibular molars with Vertucci's type II configuration in the mesial root were selected. Teeth were autoclaved, inoculated with dental plaque and incubated in a CDC biofilm reactor for two weeks. The mesial roots were instrumented up to 20.06 file (V-Taper) for the GentleWave group and up to 35.04 file (Vortex Blue) for PUI group. Irrigation was performed using GentleWave and PUI irrigation protocols (n = 11). Dentine debris on paper points samples were obtained for quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing (next-generation aequencing-NGS). For qPCR, a non-parametric test (alpha = 0.05) was used. Next-generation sequencing data were analysed using mothur, with alpha diversity calculated as the Shannon and Chao1 indices and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities were used for beta diversity. Differences in alpha diversity and abundances of genera were evaluated using Kruskal-Wallis test. Differences in community composition were evaluated using analysis of similarity with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. Results Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results showed that the reduction estimated in percentages for both groups was equivalent (p > .05). NGS analysis showed that both techniques promoted a significant reduction in reads and OTUs number (p < .05). Shannon alpha diversity and Chao1 index showed no differences between pre- or post-treatment samples for both groups (p > .05). Additionally, pre-treatment communities differed from post-treatment samples in both groups regarding bacterial taxa reduction (ANOSIM R = 0.50 and 0.55, p < .001). Conclusions Bacterial reduction in mesial roots of mandibular molars prepared to 35.04 with PUI was similar to those prepared to 20.06 with a multisonic irrigant activation system.		[Coaguila-Llerena, Hernan; Faria, Gisele] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Araraquara Sch Dent, Dept Restorat Dent, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Coaguila-Llerena, Hernan; Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower 515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Staley, Christopher; Dietz, Matthew] Univ Minnesota, Dept Surg, Div Basic & Translat Res, Box 242 UMHC, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Chen, Ruoqiong] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower 515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								5							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000847587100001		
J	Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio; Gil-Delgado, Jose A.; Galvez, Angel; Bernat-Ponce, Edgar								Artificial grass in parks as a potential new threat for urban bird communities								BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL				33						PII S0959270922000119	10.1017/S0959270922000119			JUL 26 2022	2022	Green areas are key habitats for urban avifauna. Urban parks stand out from other anthropic habitats especially in providing trophic resources for many bird species. Consequently, modifications of these green zones can imply major changes in urban biodiversity. Potential pernicious urban remodelling is taking place in parks of eastern Spain because natural grass is being replaced with artificial grass to save water and to avoid management. This study aimed to determine whether remodelled parks with artificial grass harbour lower avian diversity (alpha, beta and gamma diversity) than traditional parks with natural grass. We surveyed 21 parks with artificial grass and 24 parks with natural grass in 18 towns of the Valencia Region in autumn 2020. In each park, we carried out 5-minute and 25-m radius point counts for determining bird species and their abundance. The effects of park area and grass type on alpha diversity (species richness, Shannon diversity index, Pielou's Evenness and total abundance) were tested by means of GLMs. Differences in beta diversity and its components (nestedness and turnover) were also analyzed with the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Gamma diversity was assessed by means of species accumulation curves. Finally, differences in community composition were tested by PERMANOVA and SIMPER tests. The parks with natural grass always harboured higher gamma diversity, species richness and abundance. Turnover was higher in parks with natural grass, whereas nestedness was higher in artificial grass parks. Differences in community composition were due mainly to abundance differences in common ground-feeding birds. We highlight that the trend of replacing natural by artificial grass in urban parks has harmful effects on urban bird communities and is a threat to bird conservation. Although artificial grass might save water, the effects on urban biodiversity should be carefully evaluated.		[Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio; Gil-Delgado, Jose A.; Galvez, Angel; Bernat-Ponce, Edgar] Univ Valencia, Cavanilles Inst Biodivers & Evolutionary Biol, C Catedrat Jose Beltran 2, Paterna 46980, Spain; [Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio] Asociac Iberozoa, Bird & Mammal Sect, Madrid, Spain; [Galvez, Angel] Univ Valencia, Cavanilles Inst Biodivers & Evolutionary Biol, C Catedrat Jose Beltran 2, Paterna 46980, Spain								4							Biodiversity Conservation; Ornithology	WOS:000830190600001		
J	Chraibi, Eric; de Boissieu, Florian; Barbier, Nicolas; Luque, Sandra; Feret, Jean-Baptiste								Stability in time and consistency between atmospheric corrections: Assessing the reliability of Sentinel-2 products for biodiversity monitoring in tropical forests								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION				112						102884	10.1016/j.jag.2022.102884			AUG 2022	2022	Earth observation satellite imagery is increasingly accessible, and has become a key component for vegetation mapping and monitoring. Sentinel-2 satellites acquire optical images with five days' revisit frequency, which is an important feature to increase the probability of acquisition with reasonable cloud cover in tropical regions. Regular and reliable satellite observations open perspectives for the monitoring of vegetation properties and biodiversity. Atmospheric correction methods (ACMs) producing bottom-of-atmosphere (BOA) reflectance are critical to ensure temporal consistency of higher-level products and optimal sensitivity to changes in vegetation properties. Still their application in tropical regions remains challenging due to complex atmospheric issues. This study aims at performing ACM inter-comparison in the context of tropical forest monitoring. We produced BOA reflectance for a set of Sentinel-2 acquisitions corresponding to a forested area in Cameroon, using four atmo-spheric correction methods: Sen2cor, MAJA, Overland and LaSRC. We selected five successive acquisitions with moderate to no cloud cover, and computed a set of spectral indices and spectral diversity metrics in order to compare the consistency of these products through time, under the hypothesis that they should remain stable over a short period. We also assessed the agreement between atmospheric correction methods. Two spatial ex-tents were used for the computation of spectral diversity metrics to assess the robustness of the data-driven processes applied to compute spectral diversity. We found that the choice of an ACM did have a significant impact on BOA reflectance and higher-level products. In the visible domain, Overland and LaSRC produced consistent BOA reflectance values, while MAJA and Sen2Cor showed strong variability which could not be explained by changes in surface properties. This directly influenced the temporal consistency of NDVI. Yet, the influence on the temporal consistency for EVI and NDWI was moderate. Spectral diversity metrics were consistent through time for all methods, but to a lesser degree than vegetation indices. When comparing the mean values over the period considered, vegetation indices were stable across methods, but not diversity metrics. Spatial context changes had an impact on the Shannon index, but not on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. These results suggest that the choice of ACM has major potential implications for tropical forest monitoring.		[Chraibi, Eric; de Boissieu, Florian; Luque, Sandra; Feret, Jean-Baptiste] Univ Montpellier, AgroParisTech, INRAE, TETIS Land Environm Remote Sensing & Spatial Info, Montpellier, France; [de Boissieu, Florian] CIRAD, UMR Eco & Sols, Montpellier, France; [Barbier, Nicolas] Univ Montpellier, AMAP, IRD, CNRS,CIRAD,INRAE, Montpellier, France; [Chraibi, Eric] Maison Teledetect, 500 Rue Jean Francois Breton, F-34090 Montpellier, France								1							Remote Sensing	WOS:000844328100002		
J	Polo, Coral; Hernandez, Marta; Garcia-Seco, Teresa; Fernandez, Victor; Briones, Victor; Diez-Guerrier, Alberto; Abad, David; Rodriguez-Lazaro, David; Dominguez, Lucas; Perez-Sancho, Marta								Exploiting 16S rRNA-based metagenomics to reveal neglected microorganisms associated with infertility in breeding bulls in Spanish extensive herds								RESEARCH IN VETERINARY SCIENCE				150				52	57		10.1016/j.rvsc.2022.04.019			DEC 2022	2022	Bovine infectious infertility represents a problem due to the high impact on animal production and, in many cases, in public health. A lack of information on the characteristics of the bacterial population of the bovine reproductive system can hamper a comprehensive understanding of reproductive pathologies and the role that the microbiome could play. A metagenomic study based on the V3-V4 hypervariable region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene was performed in 1029 preputial samples from bulls raised in an extensive regimen in Spain (944 from herds with low fertility rates -case group-, and 85 samples from reproductively healthy herds -control group-). The most representative phyla as well as the most 10 abundant bacterial families and their abundance did not show significant differences in both case and control groups. Similarly, the (alpha and beta) diversity of the bacterial populations was similar in both type of herds: the Shannon and Simpson indices show a high diversity of species, while the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index did not show relevant differences in the bacterial communities. A deeper analysis of the operational taxonomic units showed the presence of one genera, Mycoplasma spp. significantly associated with fertility problems. Our study highlights the promising potential that the application of sequencing techniques (e.g. 16S rRNA-based metagenomics) possesses in examining bovine infertility, as they are able to reveal different pathogens that could go unnoticed using diagnostic approaches for only the main known pathogens.		[Polo, Coral; Dominguez, Lucas; Perez-Sancho, Marta] Univ Complutense Madrid, VISAVET Hlth Surveillance Ctr, Puerta Hierro S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Polo, Coral; Diez-Guerrier, Alberto] MAEVA SRVET S L, Calle Fragua 3, Madrid 28749, Spain; [Hernandez, Marta; Abad, David] Inst Tecnol Agr Castilla & Leon, Mol Biol & Microbiol Lab, Ave Burgos, Valladolid 47071, Spain; [Fernandez, Victor] Zootecnia Anal Clin Vet SLP, Calle Tierra Campos 24-26, Salamanca 37008, Spain; [Briones, Victor; Diez-Guerrier, Alberto; Perez-Sancho, Marta] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Vet, Dept Anim Hlth, Ave Puerta Hierro S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain; [Rodriguez-Lazaro, David] Univ Burgos, Dept Biotechnol & Food Sci, Microbiol Area, Pza Misael Banuelos S-N, Burgos 09001, Spain; [Perez-Sancho, Marta] Univ Complutense Madrid, VISAVET Hlth Surveillance Ctr, Puerta Hierro S-N, Madrid 28040, Spain								2							Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000834138200007		
J	Tatsumi, Shinichi; Iritani, Ryosuke; Cadotte, Marc W.								Partitioning the temporal changes in abundance-based beta diversity into loss and gain components								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				13	9			2042	2048		10.1111/2041-210X.13921			SEP 2022	2022	Ecologists have long recognized that the losses and gains in local species abundances can either decrease or increase spatial beta diversity, phenomena often referred to as biotic homogenization and differentiation, respectively. However, quantifying such dynamic impacts of species abundances on beta diversity has remained a methodological challenge. Here, we develop a numerical method to additively partition the temporal changes in beta diversity into distinct components that reflect the losses and gains in local species abundances. Our method is based on Ruzicka and Bray-Curtis indices and the normalized abundance-based Whittaker's beta diversity. The temporal changes in these measures are partitioned into components that represent biotic homogenization and differentiation driven by abundance losses and gains at both species and community levels. Application of the method to a Swedish fish community dataset revealed decreases in beta diversity between 1990 and 2018. The homogenization of fish communities was explained by gains, but not losses, in species abundances across sites. Species-level partitioning further showed that the homogenization was largely caused by the increased population sizes of a particular species in sites where it was already present. The results highlight that our partitioning method effectively identifies local population and community processes embedded in regional biodiversity patterns. We believe that explicit analyses of the losses and gains in species abundances should bring deeper insights into the dynamics of beta diversity.		[Tatsumi, Shinichi; Cadotte, Marc W.] Univ Toronto Scarborough, Dept Biol Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Hokkaido Res Ctr, Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan; [Iritani, Ryosuke] RIKEN Interdisciplinary Theoret & Math Sci iTHEMS, Saitama, Japan; [Cadotte, Marc W.] Univ Toronto, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Univ Toronto Scarborough, Dept Biol Sci, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Tatsumi, Shinichi] Hokkaido Res Ctr, Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan								5							Ecology	WOS:000819731000001		
J	Wani, Zishan Ahmad; Khan, Sajid; Bhat, Jahangeer A.; Malik, Akhtar H.; Alyas, Tahira; Pant, Shreekar; Siddiqui, Sazada; Moustafa, Mahmoud; Ahmad, Ahmad Ezzat								Pattern of β-Diversity and Plant Species Richness along Vertical Gradient in Northwest Himalaya, India								BIOLOGY-BASEL				11	7					1064	10.3390/biology11071064			JUL 2022	2022	Simple Summary Elevation has a significant impact on the distribution of plant species. However, the structure and distribution patterns of Himalayan vegetation are poorly explored, and research on species composition along an elevation gradient in these mountain ranges is still deficient. Plant species richness is supposed to diminish with altitude, although numerous scientists have found a peak in species richness at mid-elevation, yielding a humped relationship. Many studies along the Himalayan altitudinal gradients have been conducted in order to better understand large-scale biogeographical patterns as well as what drives them, but no clear pattern has emerged. In order to understand how elevation affects plant species, we focused on species diversity, species composition and beta-diversity, which allow for the interpreting of different patterns along the elevations. It was found that all these components of diversity vary significantly with the change in altitude. The structure and distribution patterns of Himalayan vegetation are poorly explored, and research on species composition along the elevation gradient in these mountain ranges is still deficient. The current study was undertaken to analyze the variation and pattern of plant species composition along a vertical gradient in northwestern Himalaya, India. A total of 18 sites were selected along an elevation gradient ranging from 2200 to 3900 m asl positioned at an interval of 100 m. The Renyi diversity profile, non-metric multidimensional scaling based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity metric and beta diversity components among the elevation belts were calculated. Furthermore, to study the influence of altitude on species richness and diversity, a generalized additive model was created. Two hundred and ten plant species representing 66 families and 147 genera were recorded. The Renyi diversity profiles show that the lower and mid-altitudes had rich species diversity. The results of the non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis show a considerable variation in the total plant species composition among the studied elevation belts. The observed multiple-site Sorensen dissimilarity index across the studied elevation belts was very high. The contribution of species replacement or the turnover component to the observed dissimilarity was much higher than the nestedness component. Furthermore, the herbaceous and tree richness showed a significant decrease with increase in elevation; however, the richness of shrubs showed a bimodal pattern. The present study increases our understanding of the trends and patterns of species richness along the vertical gradient in the Himalayan region.		[Wani, Zishan Ahmad] Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah Univ, Dept Bot, Conservat Ecol Lab, Rajouri 185234, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Khan, Sajid] Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah Univ, Dept Bot, Conservat & Mol Biol Lab, Rajouri 185234, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Bhat, Jahangeer A.] Rani Lakshmi Bai Cent Agr Univ, Coll Hort & Forestry, Jhansi 284003, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Malik, Akhtar H.] Univ Kashmir, Ctr Biodivers & Taxon, Srinagar 190006, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Alyas, Tahira] Lahore Coll Women Univ Lahore, Dept Bot, Punjab 54000, Pakistan; [Pant, Shreekar] Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah Univ, Ctr Biodivers Studies, Rajouri 185234, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Siddiqui, Sazada; Moustafa, Mahmoud; Ahmad, Ahmad Ezzat] King Khalid Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Biol, Abha 61413, Saudi Arabia; [Moustafa, Mahmoud] South Valley Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Bot & Microbiol, Qena 83523, Egypt; [Ahmad, Ahmad Ezzat] South Valley Univ, Fac Vet Med, Dept Theriogenol, Qena 83523, Egypt; [Pant, Shreekar] Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah Univ, Ctr Biodivers Studies, Rajouri 185234, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Siddiqui, Sazada] King Khalid Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Biol, Abha 61413, Saudi Arabia								10							Biology	WOS:000831518200001		
J	Raymond-Fleury, Annick; Lessard, Marie-Helene; Chamberland, Julien; Pouliot, Yves; Dugat-Bony, Eric; Turgeon, Sylvie L.; St-Gelais, Daniel; Labrie, Steve								Analysis of Microbiota Persistence in Quebec's Terroir Cheese Using a Metabarcoding Approach								MICROORGANISMS				10	7					1381	10.3390/microorganisms10071381			JUL 2022	2022	Environmental short amplicon sequencing, or metabarcoding, is commonly used to characterize the bacterial and fungal microbiota of cheese. Comparisons between different metabarcoding studies are complicated by the use of different gene markers. Here, we systematically compare different metabarcoding molecular targets using V3-V4 and V6-V8 regions of the bacterial 16S rDNA and fungal ITS1 and ITS2 regions. Taxonomic profiles varied depending on the molecular markers used. Based on data quality and detection capacity of the markers toward microorganisms usually associated with the dairy environment, the ribosomal regions V3-V4 and ITS2 were selected and further used to evaluate variability in the microbial ecosystem of terroir cheeses from the province of Quebec in Canada. Both fungal and bacterial ecosystem profiles were described for 32 different ready-to-eat bloomy-, washed- and natural-rind specialty cheese varieties. Among them, 15 were studied over two different production years. Using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index as an indicator of microbial shifts, we found that most variations could be explained by either a voluntary change in starter or ripening culture composition, or by changes in the cheesemaking technology. Overall, our results suggest the persistence of the microbiota between the two years studied-these data aid understanding of cheese microbiota composition and persistence during cheese ripening.		[Raymond-Fleury, Annick; Lessard, Marie-Helene; Chamberland, Julien; Pouliot, Yves; Turgeon, Sylvie L.; St-Gelais, Daniel; Labrie, Steve] Univ Laval, STELA Dairy Res Ctr, Inst Nutr & Funct Foods INAF, Dept Food Sci & Nutr, 2425 Rue Agr, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada; [Dugat-Bony, Eric] Univ Paris Saclay, AgroParisTech, INRAE, UMR SayFood, Ave Lucien Bretignieres, F-78850 Thiverval Grignon, France; [St-Gelais, Daniel] Agr & Agri Food Canada, St Hyacinthe Res & Dev Ctr, 3600 Casavant Blvd West, St Hyacinthe, PQ J2S 8E3, Canada; [Labrie, Steve] Univ Laval, STELA Dairy Res Ctr, Inst Nutr & Funct Foods INAF, Dept Food Sci & Nutr, 2425 Rue Agr, Quebec City, PQ G1V 0A6, Canada								2							Microbiology	WOS:000833880300001		
J	Elsinger, Mae E.; Dhar, Amalesh; Naeth, M. Anne								Plains rough fescue grassland restoration using natural regeneration after pipeline disturbances								RESTORATION ECOLOGY				31	3					e13703	10.1111/rec.13703			MAR 2023	2023	Plains rough fescue (Festuca hallii), once a dominant grassland in the Northern Great Plains, has been reduced to a fraction of its original extent by agricultural intensification and energy sector disturbances and has become a threatened community type. Despite thousands of kilometers of pipelines in grasslands, little is documented about long-term restoration outcomes. This research assessed recovery of rough fescue grassland 6-21 years after pipeline construction with topsoil stripping and natural regeneration relative to undisturbed reference sites in south-central Canada. Soil properties varied between pipelines and undisturbed prairie, although most were within theoretical values to support plant growth and development. Vegetation cover, species richness and Shannon diversity and evenness did not differ significantly between pipelines and undisturbed prairie. Multivariate analysis (multi-response permutation procedure) showed plant community composition, and its dominant species differed significantly between pipelines and undisturbed prairie. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices showed dominant species and functional species groups on pipelines were more similar to undisturbed prairie than the undesirable species group. Presence of early- to late-successional species and increasing F. hallii with pipeline age indicate restoration was possible with topsoil salvage and replacement, using natural regeneration as a revegetation method, but requires time to develop and restore a typical rough fescue grassland ecosystem.		[Elsinger, Mae E.; Dhar, Amalesh; Naeth, M. Anne] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Naeth, M. Anne] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, Edmonton, AB, Canada								4							Ecology	WOS:000788265500001		
J	Lommi, Sohvi; Manzoor, Muhammed; Engberg, Elina; Agrawal, Nitin; Lakka, Timo A.; Leinonen, Jukka; Kolho, Kaija-Leena; Viljakainen, Heli								The Composition and Functional Capacities of Saliva Microbiota Differ Between Children With Low and High Sweet Treat Consumption								FRONTIERS IN NUTRITION				9						864687	10.3389/fnut.2022.864687			APR 25 2022	2022	Excess sugar consumption-common in youth-is associated with poor health. Evidence on the relationship between sugar consumption and the oral microbiome, however, remains scarce and inconclusive. We explored whether the diversity, composition, and functional capacities of saliva microbiota differ based on the consumption of select sugary foods and drinks ("sweet treats"). Using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, we characterized saliva microbiota from 11 to 13-year-old children who participated in the Finnish Health in Teens (Fin-HIT) cohort study. The sample comprised children in the lowest (n = 227) and highest (n = 226) tertiles of sweet treat consumption. We compared differences in the alpha diversity (Shannon, inverse Simpson, and Chao1 indices), beta diversity (principal coordinates analysis based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), and abundance (differentially abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) at the genus level) between these low and high consumption groups. We performed PICRUSt2 to predict the metabolic pathways of microbial communities. No differences emerged in the alpha diversity between low and high sweet treat consumption, whereas the beta diversity differed between groups (p = 0.001). The abundance of several genera such as Streptococcus, Prevotella, Veillonella, and Selenomonas was higher in the high consumption group compared with the low consumption group following false discovery rate correction (p < 0.05). Children with high sweet treat consumption exhibited higher proportions of nitrate reduction IV and gondoate biosynthesis pathways compared with the low consumption group (p < 0.05). To conclude, sweet treat consumption shapes saliva microbiota. Children who consume a high level of sweet treats exhibited different compositions and metabolic pathways compared with children who consume low levels of sweet treats. Our findings reveal novel insights into the relationship between sugary diets and oral microbiota.										4							Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000805923300001		
J	Saavedra, Flavia M.; Pelepenko, Lauter E.; Boyle, William S.; Zhang, Anqi; Staley, Christopher; Herzberg, Mark C.; Marciano, Marina A.; Lima, Bruno P.								<i>In vitro</i> physicochemical characterization of five root canal sealers and their influence on an <i>ex vivo</i> oral multi-species biofilm community								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL				55	7			772	783		10.1111/iej.13742			JUL 2022	2022	Aim To evaluate the physicochemical properties of five root canal sealers and assess their effect on an ex vivo dental plaque-derived polymicrobial community. Methodology Dental plaque-derived microbial communities were exposed to the sealers (AH Plus [AHP], GuttaFlow Bioseal [GFB], Endoseal MTA [ESM], Bio-C sealer [BCS] and BioRoot RCS [BRR]) for 3, 6 and 18 h. The sealers' effect on the biofilm biomass and metabolic activity was quantified using crystal violet (CV) staining and MTT assay, respectively. Biofilm community composition and morphology were assessed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), 16S rRNA sequencing and scanning electron microscopy. The ISO6876:2012 specifications were followed to determine the setting time, radiopacity, flowability and solubility. Obturated acrylic teeth were used to assess the sealers' effect on pH. Surface chemical characterization was performed using SEM with coupled energy-dispersive spectroscopy. Data normality was assessed using the Shapiro-Wilk test. One-way anova and Tukey's tests were used to analyze data from setting time, radiopacity, flowability and solubility. Two-way anova and Dunnett's tests were used for the data analysis from CV, MTT and pH. 16S rRNA sequencing data were analyzed for alpha (Shannon index and Chao analysis) and beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarities). Differences in community composition were evaluated by analysis of similarity (p < .05). Results The sealers significantly influenced microbial community composition and morphology. All sealers complied with ISO6876:2012 requirements for setting time, radiopacity and flowability. Although only AHP effectively reduced the biofilm biomass, all sealers, except BRR, reduced biofilm metabolic activity. Conclusion Despite adequate physical properties, none of the sealers tested prevented biofilm growth. Significant changes in community composition were observed. If observed in vivo, these changes could affect intracanal microbial survival, pathogenicity and treatment outcomes.		[Saavedra, Flavia M.; Pelepenko, Lauter E.; Marciano, Marina A.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Dent Piracicaba, Dept Restorat Dent, Av Limeira 901, BR-13414903 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Saavedra, Flavia M.; Boyle, William S.; Herzberg, Mark C.; Lima, Bruno P.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, 17-238 Moos Tower,515 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Zhang, Anqi] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Minnesota Dent Res Ctr Biomat & Biomech MDRCBB, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Staley, Christopher] Univ Minnesota, Dept Surg, Div Basic & Translat Res, Box 242 UMHC, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Marciano, Marina A.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Sch Dent Piracicaba, Dept Restorat Dent, Av Limeira 901, BR-13414903 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Lima, Bruno P.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, 17-238 Moos Tower,515 Delaware St SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								1							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000782560700001		
J	Sonalio, Karina; Almeida, Henrique M. S.; Mechler-Dreibi, Marina L.; Storino, Gabriel Y.; Haesebrouck, Freddy; Maes, Dominiek; de Oliveira, Luis Guilherme								Influence of <i>Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae</i> natural infection on the respiratory microbiome diversity of finishing pigs								VETERINARY RESEARCH				53	1					20	10.1186/s13567-022-01038-9			MAR 18 2022	2022	Mycoplasma (M.) hyopneumoniae interacts with the respiratory microbiota and facilitates colonization of other pathogens. The present study investigated the pulmonary and nasal microbiota of M. hyopneumoniae-infected and M. hyopneumoniae-free pigs. Sixty-six pigs from three commercial herds were selected at the end of the finishing phase: 44 originated from two M. hyopneumoniae-positive herds and 22 from a M. hyopneumoniae-negative farm. At the slaughterhouse, samples of nasal turbinate (NT) and bronchus-alveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were collected. DNA was extracted with a commercial kit and the infection status was confirmed by qPCR. All samples from the same herd were pooled, and next-generation sequencing based on the hypervariable region V3-V4 of the 16 s bacterial rDNA was performed. Data analysis included the taxonomic analysis, Alpha diversity indexes, and Principal coordinates analysis (Pcoa) using Jaccard, Bray-Curtis, Weighted Unifrac, and Unweighted Unifrac distances. All pigs from the infected herds tested PCR positive for M. hyopneumoniae, whereas all pigs from the negative farm were negative. There was a greater diversity of microorganisms in BALF when compared to NT samples in all the farms. BALF samples from infected animals showed higher abundance of M. hyopneumoniae than NT samples and a predominance of Pasteurella multocida among the main species identified, which was also abundant in the M. hyopneumoniae-free herd. PCoa diagrams indicated that for most of the samples, dissimilarity on bacterial composition was observed, regardless of infection status and sample type. Therefore, the lung microbiota was modulated by M. hyopneumoniae infection, which could play a role in the pathogenesis of M. hyopneumoniae-disease.		[Sonalio, Karina; Almeida, Henrique M. S.; Mechler-Dreibi, Marina L.; Storino, Gabriel Y.; de Oliveira, Luis Guilherme] Sao Paulo State Univ Unesp, Sch Agr & Vet Sci, Jaboticabal, Brazil; [Sonalio, Karina; Haesebrouck, Freddy; Maes, Dominiek] Univ Ghent, Fac Vet Med, Merelbeke, Belgium; [de Oliveira, Luis Guilherme] Sao Paulo State Univ Unesp, Sch Agr & Vet Sci, Jaboticabal, Brazil								2							Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000771136500004		
J	Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Mansour, Dina; Saavedra, Flavia; Staley, Christopher; Chen, Ruoqiong; Fok, Alex S.								<i>In vitro</i> efficacy of a non-instrumentation technique to remove intracanal multispecies biofilm								INTERNATIONAL ENDODONTIC JOURNAL				55	5			495	504		10.1111/iej.13706			MAY 2022	2022	Aim The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of a non-instrumentation technique to disinfect root canals infected by a human dental plaque-derived multispecies biofilm. Methodology Twenty-two mandibular incisors were accessed, autoclaved and inoculated with dental plaque. The Center for Disease Control biofilm reactor was used to promote contamination of the root canal space. In the conventional technique (control), the specimens were instrumented until size 35/04 and irrigated with 6% NaOCl. In the non-instrumentation technique, a glide path was established using K-files size 10-20 and specimens were immediately cleaned with the GentleWave System. Samples were obtained for culture and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Differences in abundances of genera were evaluated using Kruskal-Wallis test, and differences in alpha diversity were compared using anova. Alpha and beta diversity indices were calculated using mothur. The Shannon and Chao1 indices were used to measure alpha diversity. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was used to measure beta diversity. Differences in community composition were evaluated using analysis of similarity with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. Results The total numbers of reads in biological samples ranged from 126 to 45 286. Significantly fewer reads were obtained from samples following cleaning by either method (p < .0001), and significantly fewer reads were obtained in post-cleaning samples following conventional versus non-instrumentation cleaning regiment (p = .002). Communities in pre-treatment samples were similar in both groups; however, significantly greater relative abundances of Streptococcus, Veillonella and Campylobacter were observed following cleaning using non-instrumentation technique (Kruskal-Wallis p = .009, .033, and .001, respectively). Whilst no significant differences were observed in Shannon alpha diversity, the Chao1 index was significantly lower in post-cleaning samples. Conclusions Significant shifts in composition were observed following cleaning by using both regimens, but the impact of this change was greater following a conventional cleaning technique.		[Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald; Mansour, Dina] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Saavedra, Flavia; Chen, Ruoqiong] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Dept Diagnost & Biol Sci, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Staley, Christopher] Univ Minnesota, Div Basic Translat Res, Dept Surg, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Fok, Alex S.] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Minnesota Dent Res Ctr Biomat & Biomech MDRCBB, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Ordinola-Zapata, Ronald] Univ Minnesota, Sch Dent, Div Endodont, 8-166 Moos Hlth Sci Tower,515 Delaware ST SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								5							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000766021400001		
J	Zhang, Miaomiao; Chen, Shutao; Ding, Sicheng; Yao, Xuewen; Wang, Zhaohui; Sang, Lin								Effects of 7 Years of Warming and Straw Application on Soil Bacterial, Fungal, and Archaeal Community Compositions and Diversities in a Crop Field								JOURNAL OF SOIL SCIENCE AND PLANT NUTRITION				22	2			2266	2281		10.1007/s42729-022-00807-x			JUN 2022	2022	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether long-term warming and straw application influenced soil microbial community composition and diversity. A 7-year experiment with four treatments, control (CK), warming (WA), straw application (SA), and warming and straw application (WASA), was performed in a winter wheat-soybean rotation crop field. We determined the bacterial, fungal, and archaeal community compositions and diversities and soil properties. The top dominant bacterial, fungal, and archaeal phyla in both 2020 and 2021 were Proteobacteria, Ascomycota, and Thaumarchaeota, respectively. SA partly offset the effects of WA on the bacterial alpha diversity, and WA and WASA significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the fungal Simpson index compared with CK in 2020. The principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) based on Bray-Curtis distances between treatments showed that the dissimilarities in bacteria, fungi, and archaea in 2021 were greater than those in 2020. The bacterial and archaeal operational taxonomic units (OTUs) richness, Chao1, Shannon index, and Simpson index, fungal Shannon and Simpson index and bacterial and fungal Bray-Curtis distances were generally significantly (P < 0.05) correlated with the soil temperature, available phosphorus (AP), microbial biomass carbon (MC), and the ratio of MC to microbial biomass nitrogen. Soil properties were important in regulating microbial community diversity under warming and straw application. AP was a key nutrient limiting factor of microbial alpha and beta diversities. We found contrasting driving patterns of MC associated with the bacterial and fungal alpha and beta diversities and the archaeal alpha diversity.		[Zhang, Miaomiao; Chen, Shutao; Ding, Sicheng; Yao, Xuewen; Wang, Zhaohui; Sang, Lin] Nanjing Univ Informat Sci & Technol, Sch Appl Meteorol, Nanjing 210044, Peoples R China; [Chen, Shutao] Nanjing Univ Informat Sci & Technol, Sch Appl Meteorol, Nanjing 210044, Peoples R China								4							Plant Sciences; Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000761886400002		
J	Farinella, Riccardo; Rizzato, Cosmeri; Bottai, Daria; Bedini, Alice; Gemignani, Federica; Landi, Stefano; Peduzzi, Giulia; Rosati, Sara; Lupetti, Antonella; Cuttano, Armando; Moscuzza, Francesca; Tuoni, Cristina; Filippi, Luca; Ciantelli, Massimiliano; Tavanti, Arianna; Campa, Daniele								Maternal anthropometric variables and clinical factors shape neonatal microbiome								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				12	1					2875	10.1038/s41598-022-06792-6			FEB 21 2022	2022	Recent studies indicate the existence of a complex microbiome in the meconium of newborns that plays a key role in regulating many host health-related conditions. However, a high variability between studies has been observed so far. In the present study, the meconium microbiome composition and the predicted microbial metabolic pathways were analysed in a consecutive cohort of 96 full-term newborns. The effect of maternal epidemiological variables on meconium diversity was analysed using regression analysis and PERMANOVA. Meconium microbiome composition mainly included Proteobacteria (30.95%), Bacteroidetes (23.17%) and Firmicutes (17.13%), while for predicted metabolic pathways, the most abundant genes belonged to the class "metabolism". We observed a significant effect of maternal Rh factor on Shannon and Inverse Simpson indexes (p = 0.045 and p = 0.049 respectively) and a significant effect of delivery mode and maternal antibiotic exposure on Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities (p = 0.001 and 0.002 respectively), while gestational age was associated with observed richness and Shannon indexes (p = 0.018 and 0.037 respectively), and Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities (p = 0.014 and 0.013 respectively). The association involving maternal Rh phenotype suggests a role for host genetics in shaping meconium microbiome prior to the exposition to the most well-known environmental variables, which will influence microbiome maturation in the newborn.		[Farinella, Riccardo; Bottai, Daria; Gemignani, Federica; Landi, Stefano; Peduzzi, Giulia; Tavanti, Arianna; Campa, Daniele] Univ Pisa, Dept Biol, Pisa, Italy; [Rizzato, Cosmeri; Lupetti, Antonella] Univ Pisa, Dept Translat Res & New Technol Med & Surg, Via San Zeno 37, I-56127 Pisa, Italy; [Bedini, Alice; Rosati, Sara; Cuttano, Armando; Moscuzza, Francesca; Tuoni, Cristina; Ciantelli, Massimiliano] Santa Chiara Hosp, Div Neonatol, Pisa, Italy; [Cuttano, Armando; Ciantelli, Massimiliano] Azienda Osped Univ Pisana, Ctr Formaz & Simulaz Neonatale NINA, Pisa, Italy; [Filippi, Luca] Univ Pisa, Dept Clin & Expt Med, Neonatol & Neonatal Intens Care Unit, Pisa, Italy; [Rizzato, Cosmeri] Univ Pisa, Dept Translat Res & New Technol Med & Surg, Via San Zeno 37, I-56127 Pisa, Italy								2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000759084600041		
J	Xiao, Keke; Horn, Harald; Abbt-Braun, Gudrun								"Humic substances" measurement in sludge dissolved organic matter: A critical assessment of current methods								CHEMOSPHERE				293						133608	10.1016/j.chemosphere.2022.133608			APR 2022	2022	The role of humic substances (HS) during sludge treatment has been the focus in recent years. Quantification of HS in sludge dissolved organic matter (DOM) and the chemical and structural characterization of HS data are the prerequisite for understanding their role during different sludge treatment processes. Currently, a number of published articles inadequately acknowledge fundamental principles of analysis methods both in terms of experimental approach and data analysis. Therefore, a more comprehensive and detailed description of the experimental methods and the data analysis are needed. In this study, the current used methods for HS quan-tification in DOM of sludge had been tested for different calibration and sludge DOM samples. The results indicated that the current methods showed overestimated and contradictory results for HS quantification in sludge DOM. To be specific, using the modified Lowry method, different values were obtained depending on the humic acids used for calibration, and false negative results were observed for some sludge samples. By using the relative amount of HS (based on dissolved organic carbon (DOC)) to total sludge DOM (based on DOC), varia-tions among the results of different analysis methods for the same sample were high. According to the calculated Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indexes, the results for HS quantification obtained by three-dimensional excitation emission matrix (3D-EEM), either with spectra analysis methods by peak picking, fluorescence region integration (both region volume and area integration), or PARAllel FACtor analysis showed higher degrees of dissimilarity to those quantified by size exclusion liquid chromatography or O-8 method. The selection of fluorescence regions for HS seemed to be the determining factor for overestimation obtained by the 3D-EEM technique. In future work, strategies, like a consistent terminology of HS, the use of an internal standard sample, and the related standardized operation for HS quantification in sludge DOM need to be established.		[Xiao, Keke; Horn, Harald; Abbt-Braun, Gudrun] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Engler Bunte Inst, Water Chem & Water Technol, Engler Bunte Ring 9, D-76131 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Xiao, Keke] Huazhong Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Environm Sci & Engn, Luoyu Rd 1037, Wuhan 430074, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Horn, Harald] DVGW Res Ctr, Water Chem & Water Technol, Engler Bunte Ring 9, D-76131 Karlsruhe, Germany; [Abbt-Braun, Gudrun] Karlsruhe Inst Technol, Engler Bunte Inst, Water Chem & Water Technol, Engler Bunte Ring 9, D-76131 Karlsruhe, Germany								12							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000758257100001		
J	N, Gholinezhad; Ardalan, Ashja; M, Malek								Identification and distribution of Gastropods in the east coasts of Qeshm Island (the Persian Gulf, Iran)								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				21	5			1298	1315		10.22092/ijfs.2022.128133			2022	2022	Gastropods are considered as the main molluscs of rocky shores and often show marked zonation patterns both horizontally and vertically. Biodiversity and distribution of gastropods were investigated at 8 stations on rocky shores of Qeshm Island during the coldest and warmest months January and August, respectively, in 2018. In the present study, 35 gastropod species were identified. The highest frequency of gastropod (550 +/- 345) was observed at S2 station (Tula 2) and the lowest one was observed at S8 station (Naz Island) (273 +/- 83.70). Planaxis sulcatus was found as the dominant species at all stations (%55.76). The results of the 3-way permutational (MANOVA) test showed that the species' structures of the gastropod community are different at various stations and during sampling months. The results of the nMDS test confirmed these differences in the structure and species composition of the gastropod population during two months. The highest diversity (Shannon index: 3.13) and species richness (Margalef index: 4.53) was observed at the S2 station and the lowest diversity (Shannon index: 2.73, Margalef index: 3.03) was observed at the S8station. According to the results of the SIMPER test, the highest percentage of participation in Bray-Curtis dissimilarity between the two months in summer and winter and at different sampling stations in terms of species density was related to Planaxis sulcatus. The structure of gastropod population at the studied stations can be influenced by the factor of seasonal changes.		[N, Gholinezhad; Ardalan, Ashja] Islamic Azad Univ, Fac Marine Sci & Technol, North Tehran Branch, Tehran, Iran; [M, Malek] Univ Tehran, Coll Sci, Sch Biol, Tehran, Iran; [Ardalan, Ashja] Islamic Azad Univ, Fac Marine Sci & Technol, North Tehran Branch, Tehran, Iran								0							Fisheries	WOS:000905663400013		
J	Baumgartner, Maura Alvarez; Li, Chengchen; Kuntz, Thomas M.; Nurhussien, Lina; Synn, Andrew J.; Sun, Wendy Y.; Kang, Jessica E.; Lai, Peggy S.; Wilkinson, Jeremy E.; Rice, Mary B.								Differences of the Nasal Microbiome and Mycobiome by Clinical Characteristics of COPD Patients								CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASES-JOURNAL OF THE COPD FOUNDATION				9	3			1	16		10.15326/jcopdf.2021.0267			2022	2022	Rationale: While studies suggest that the lung microbiome may influence risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations, little is known about the relationship between the nasal biome and clinical characteristics of COPD patients. Methods: We sampled the nasal lining fluid by nasosorption of both nares of 20 people with moderate-to-severe COPD. All 40 samples, plus 4 negative controls, underwent DNA extraction, and 16SV4 ribosomal RNA (rRNA) (bacterial) and ribosomal internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) (fungal) sequencing. We measured the proportion of variance (R-2) in beta diversity explained by clinical factors, including age, sex, body mass index (BMI), COPD treatment, disease severity (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1], symptom/exacerbation frequency), peripheral eosinophil level (>= 150 versus <150cells/mu L) and season of sampling, with the PERMANOVA test on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarities, accounting for within-person correlation of samples. We assessed the relative abundance of microbial features in the nasal community and their associations with clinical characteristics using the Microbiome Multivariable Association with Linear Models (MaAsLin2) package. Results: The most abundant nasal fluid bacterial taxa were Corynebacterium, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Moraxella, and Dolosigranulum, and fungal taxa were Malassezia, Candida, Malasseziales, Cladosporium and Aspergillus. Bacterial microbiome composition was associated with short-acting muscarinic antagonist use (R-2 11.8%, p=0.002), sex (R-2 8.3%, p=0.044), nasal steroid use (R-2 7.7%, p=0.064), and higher eosinophil level (R2 7.6%, p=0.084). Mycobiome composition was associated with higher eosinophil level (R-2 14.4%, p=0.004) and low FEV1 (R-2 7.5%, p=0.071). No specific bacterium or fungus differed significantly in relative abundance by clinical characteristics in the multivariate per-feature analysis. Interpretation: The taxonomical composition of the nasal biome is heterogeneous in COPD patients and may be explained in part by clinical characteristics.		[Baumgartner, Maura Alvarez; Nurhussien, Lina; Synn, Andrew J.; Sun, Wendy Y.; Kang, Jessica E.; Rice, Mary B.] Beth Israel Deaconess Med Ctr, Dept Med, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Li, Chengchen; Kuntz, Thomas M.; Wilkinson, Jeremy E.] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat, Boston, MA USA; [Lai, Peggy S.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Med, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Rice, Mary B.] Beth Israel Deaconess Med Ctr, Dept Med, Boston, MA 02215 USA								2							Respiratory System	WOS:000836237600001		
J	Cremonesi, Paola; Biscarini, Filippo; Castiglioni, Bianca; Sgoifo, Carlo Angelo; Compiani, Riccardo; Moroni, Paolo								Gut microbiome modifications over time when removing in-feed antibiotics from the prophylaxis of post-weaning diarrhea in piglets								PLOS ONE				17	3					e0262199	10.1371/journal.pone.0262199			2022	2022	Post-weaning diarrhea (PWD) in pigs has mainly an infectious basis and control strategies are centred on antibiotics added to the diet. Given concerns on the spread of multi-resistant bacteria, it is necessary to develop alternative prophylactic approaches to control PWD in piglets. The most promising alternative strategies are based on substances that act indirectly on the bacteria by stimulating the immune system or by improving gut health. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect on the gut microbiota of feed supplemented with a mixture of essential oils (garlic and oregano) in weaning piglets, compared to traditional PWD management (in-feed antibiotics) and to a control group without any diet supplementation. The study involved 197 piglets from 18 litters in a single farm. The piglets were followed from birth to day 58 of age and were weaned at day 26. During the experimental period, the animals were monitored for weight and growth, average daily gain, morbidity and mortality. For the metataxonomics analysis, rectal samples were collected from 17 piglets from the three experimental groups at 4 different time-points (days 1, 12, 26 and 58). Results revealed that the gut microbiota in pre- and post-weaning piglets was dominated by the phyla Firmicutes (51%), Bacteroidetes (25%) and Proteobacteria (16%), which together make up for over 90% of the entire piglet core gut microbiota. The core microbiota comprised 10 taxa before weaning and 43 taxa after weaning, with 7 taxa overlapping between timepoints: two of them (Prevotella 9, p-value = 0.00095; Solobacterium p-value = 0.00821) were significantly more abundant after weaning. All alpha diversity indexes were significantly different between pre- and post-weaning, while only Shannon and Simpson diversity and equitability were significantly different between treatments. Based on the matrix of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities, samples showed clear clustering per timepoint (before and after weaning, p-value < 0.001) and between treatments by timepoint (p-value = 0.0086). The oil-diet group showed a consistently higher F:B ratio at all timepoints. These results show that the pig gut microbiota changes significantly with weaning, and suggest that the use of essential oils as feed supplementation to control PWD does not seem to alter sgnificantly the microbiota nor the growth parameters of piglets, however modifications of specific taxa may occur.		[Cremonesi, Paola; Biscarini, Filippo; Castiglioni, Bianca] Inst Biol & Biotechnol Agr CNR IBBA, Natl Res Council, Milan, Italy; [Moroni, Paolo] Univ Milan, Dept Vet Med Unimi Medvet, Milan, Italy; [Sgoifo, Carlo Angelo; Compiani, Riccardo] Univ Milan, Dept Vet Sci Hlth Anim Prod & Food Safety Unimi V, Milan, Italy; [Biscarini, Filippo] Inst Biol & Biotechnol Agr CNR IBBA, Natl Res Council, Milan, Italy								11							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001143684900003		
J	Geng, Mengdie; Zhang, Weizhen; Hu, Ting; Wang, Rong; Cheng, Xiaoying; Wang, Jianjun								Eutrophication causes microbial community homogenization via modulating generalist species								WATER RESEARCH				210						118003	10.1016/j.watres.2021.118003			FEB 15 2022	2022	Eutrophication substantially influences the community structure of aquatic organisms and has become a major threat to biodiversity. However, whether eutrophication is linked to homogenization of microbial communities and the possible underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we studied bacterial and fungal communities from water and sediments of 40 shallow lakes in the Yangtze-Huaihe River basin, a representative area characterized by intensifying eutrophication in China, and further examined the beta diversity patterns and underlying mechanisms under eutrophication conditions. Our results indicate that eutrophication generally caused biotic homogenization of bacterial and fungal communities in both habitats showing decreased community variations for the sites with a higher trophic state index (TSI). In the two habitats, community dissimilarities were positively correlated with TSI changes for both taxonomic groups, while the local contribution to beta diversity (LCBD) remarkably declined with increasing TSI for the fungal community. These phenomena were consistent with the pivotal importance of the TSI in statistically accounting for beta diversity of bacterial and fungal communities in both habitats. In addition, we found that physicochemical factors such as water temperature and pH were also important for bacterial and fungal communities in water, while heavy metal elements were important for the communities in sediments. Interestingly, generalist species, rather than specialist species, were revealed to more dominantly affect the variations in beta diversity along the trophic gradient, which were quantified by Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and LCBD. Collectively, our findings reveal the importance of generalist species in contributing to the change of beta diversity of microbial communities along trophic gradients, which have profound implications for a comprehensive understanding of the effects of eutrophication on microbial community.		[Geng, Mengdie; Cheng, Xiaoying] Jiangnan Univ, Sch Environm & Civil Engn, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Geng, Mengdie; Zhang, Weizhen; Hu, Ting; Wang, Rong; Wang, Jianjun] Chinese Acad Sci, Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Weizhen] Lanzhou Univ, Ctr Pan Pole Environm 3, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jianjun] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Cheng, Xiaoying] Jiangnan Univ, Sch Environm & Civil Engn, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jianjun] Chinese Acad Sci, Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China								40							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000758719500001		
J	Lee, Debbie; Calendo, Gennaro; Kopec, Kristin; Henry, Rebekah; Coutts, Scott; McCarthy, David; Murphy, Heather M.								The Impact of Pipe Material on the Diversity of Microbial Communities in Drinking Water Distribution Systems								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				12						779016	10.3389/fmicb.2021.779016			DEC 21 2021	2021	As many cities around the world face the prospect of replacing aging drinking water distribution systems (DWDS), water utilities must make careful decisions on new pipe material (e.g., cement-lined or PVC) for these systems. These decisions are informed by cost, physical integrity, and impact on microbiological and physicochemical water quality. Indeed, pipe material can impact the development of biofilm in DWDS that can harbor pathogens and impact drinking water quality. Annular reactors (ARs) with cast iron and cement coupons fed with chloraminated water from a municipal DWDS were used to investigate the impact of pipe material on biofilm development and composition over 16 months. The ARs were plumbed as closely as possible to the water main in the basement of an academic building to simulate distribution system conditions. Biofilm communities on coupons were characterized using 16S rRNA sequencing. In the cast iron reactors, beta-proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, and alpha-proteobacteria were similarly relatively abundant (24.1, 22.5, and 22.4%, respectively) while in the cement reactors, alpha-proteobacteria and Actinobacteria were more relatively abundant (36.3 and 35.2%, respectively) compared to beta-proteobacteria (12.8%). Mean alpha diversity (estimated with Shannon H and Faith's Phylogenetic Difference indices) was greater in cast iron reactors (Shannon: 5.00 +/- 0.41; Faith's PD: 15.40 +/- 2.88) than in cement reactors (Shannon: 4.16 +/- 0.78; Faith's PD: 13.00 +/- 2.01). PCoA of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities indicated that communities in cast iron ARs, cement ARs, bulk distribution system water, and distribution system pipe biofilm were distinct. The mean relative abundance of Mycobacterium spp. was greater in the cement reactors (34.8 +/- 18.6%) than in the cast iron reactors (21.7 +/- 11.9%). In contrast, the mean relative abundance of Legionella spp. trended higher in biofilm from cast iron reactors (0.5 +/- 0.7%) than biofilm in cement reactors (0.01 +/- 0.01%). These results suggest that pipe material is associated with differences in the diversity, bacterial composition, and opportunistic pathogen prevalence in biofilm of DWDS.		[Lee, Debbie; Calendo, Gennaro; Kopec, Kristin; Murphy, Heather M.] Temple Univ, Coll Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Water Hlth & Appl Microbiol Lab WHAM Lab, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Henry, Rebekah; McCarthy, David] Monash Univ, Dept Civil Engn, Environm & Publ Hlth Microbiol Lab EPHM Lab, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Coutts, Scott] Monash Univ, Dept Microbiol, Micromon, Clayton, Vic, Australia; [Murphy, Heather M.] Univ Guelph, Ontario Vet Coll, Dept Pathobiol, Water Hlth & Appl Microbiol Lab WHAM Lab, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Murphy, Heather M.] Temple Univ, Coll Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol & Biostat, Water Hlth & Appl Microbiol Lab WHAM Lab, Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA; [Murphy, Heather M.] Univ Guelph, Ontario Vet Coll, Dept Pathobiol, Water Hlth & Appl Microbiol Lab WHAM Lab, Guelph, ON, Canada								10							Microbiology	WOS:000739078900001		
J	Holzhausen, Elizabeth A.; Nikodemova, Maria; Deblois, Courtney L.; Barnet, Jodi H.; Peppard, Paul E.; Suen, Garret; Malecki, Kristen M.								Assessing the impact of storage time on the stability of stool microbiota richness, diversity, and composition								GUT PATHOGENS				13	1					75	10.1186/s13099-021-00470-0			DEC 20 2021	2021	Background: New technologies like next-generation sequencing have led to a proliferation of studies investigating the role of the gut microbiome in human health, particularly population-based studies that rely upon participant self-collection of samples. However, the impact of methodological differences in sample shipping, storage, and processing are not well-characterized for these types of studies, especially when transit times may exceed 24 h. The aim of this study was to experimentally assess microbiota stability in stool samples stored at 4 degrees C for durations of 6, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h with no additives to better understand effects of variable shipping times in population-based studies. These data were compared to a baseline sample that was immediately stored at - 80 degrees C after stool production. Results: Compared to the baseline sample, we found that the alpha-diversity metrics Shannon's and Inverse Simpson's had excellent intra-class correlations (ICC) for all storage durations. Chaol richness had good to excellent ICC. We found that the relative abundances of bacteria in the phyla Verrucomicrobia, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria had excellent ICC with baseline for all storage durations, while Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes ranged from moderate to good. We interpreted the ICCs as follows: poor: ICC< 0.50, moderate: 0.50 < ICC< 0.75, good: 0.75 < ICC< 0.90, and excellent: ICC> 0.90. Using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, we found that the greatest change in community composition occurred between 0 and 24 h of storage, while community composition remained relatively stable for subsequent storage durations. Samples showed strong clustering by individual, indicating that inter-individual variability was greater than the variability associated with storage time. Conclusions: The results of this analysis suggest that several measures of alpha diversity, relative abundance, and overall community composition are robust to storage at 4 degrees C for up to 96 h. We found that the overall community richness was influenced by storage duration in addition to the relative abundances of sequences within the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes phyla. Finally, we demonstrate that inter-individual variability in microbiota composition was greater than the variability due to changing storage durations.		[Holzhausen, Elizabeth A.; Nikodemova, Maria; Barnet, Jodi H.; Peppard, Paul E.; Malecki, Kristen M.] Univ Wisconsin, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Populat Hlth Sci, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Deblois, Courtney L.; Suen, Garret] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Bacteriol, Madison, WI USA; [Deblois, Courtney L.] Univ Wisconsin, Microbiol Doctoral Training Program, Madison, WI USA; [Holzhausen, Elizabeth A.; Malecki, Kristen M.] Univ Wisconsin, Sch Med & Publ Hlth, Populat Hlth Sci, Madison, WI 53706 USA								10							Gastroenterology & Hepatology; Microbiology	WOS:000732951300001		
J	Mercado-Gomez, Jorge D.; Giraldo-Sanchez, Carlos; Escalante, Tania								Geographic distance and environmental variation drive community structure of woody plants in Neotropical seasonally dry forest fragments in the Colombian Caribbean								PLANT ECOLOGY & DIVERSITY				14	3-4			169	181		10.1080/17550874.2021.2002455			JUL 4 2021	2021	Background Montes de Maria is the best-preserved tropical dry forest fragment in the Colombian Caribbean, making it a good model to relate environmental and geographic factors to woody plant community structure. Aims We related alpha and beta diversity of woody plant communities to geographic distance and bioclimatic factors to understand the underlying factors of community structure. Methods We compared species composition among seven sites and calculated alpha (using effective numbers of species) and beta diversity using Whitaker and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and a Mantel test were used to quantify how community structure was related to environmental and/or geographic distance. Results We found that Montes de Maria is as diverse as other dry forest fragments in Colombia. We detected three groups of communities which were shaped mainly by turnover associated with both precipitation and geographic distance. Conclusions The high beta diversity of the dry forest of Montes de Maria is related to a mixture of environmental variation and geographic distance.		[Mercado-Gomez, Jorge D.] Univ Sucre, Dept Biol & Quim, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Sincelejo, Colombia; [Giraldo-Sanchez, Carlos] Univ Catolica Oriente, Grp Invest Sanidad Vegetal, Fac Ciencias Agr, Rionegro, Colombia; [Escalante, Tania] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Biol Evolut, Grp Biogeog Conservac, Ciudad De Mexico, Mexico; [Mercado-Gomez, Jorge D.] Univ Sucre, Dept Biol & Quim, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Sincelejo, Colombia								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000731240000001		
J	Liu, Kun; Wang, Anke; Zhang, Sujiong; Zhu, Zhenxian; Bi, Yufang; Wang, Yukui; Du, Xuhua								Tree species diversity mapping using UAS-based digital aerial photogrammetry point clouds and multispectral imageries in a subtropical forest invaded by moso bamboo (<i>Phyllostachys edulis</i>)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION				104						102587	10.1016/j.jag.2021.102587			DEC 15 2021	2021	Moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) tends to invade any surrounding forest areas due to its aggressive characteristics (fast growth and clonal reproduction), where it changes the species composition and canopy structure of the forests, and has negative effects on forest diversity and ecosystem functions. Unmanned aerial system (UAS)-based remote sensing has the capacity to provide high-resolution, continuous spatial data that can be used to detect forest invasion dynamics. In this study, UAS-based RGB and multispectral image data and digital aerial photogrammetric point cloud (PPC) were acquired and used to detect areas of bamboo invasion in a subtropical forest of Southern China. First, a point cloud segmentation (PCS) method was applied for individual tree detection (ITD) using photogrammetric point clouds (PPCs). A random forest (RF) classifier was used to perform tree species classification based on PPC metrics, vegetation indices, and texture metrics. Finally, based on the results of the ITD and tree species classification, alpha-diversity (i.e., the species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener (H'), Simpson (D), and Pielou's evenness index(J)) and the spatial variation in species composition along the altitude gradient (beta-diversity) in the invaded forests were assessed. Results demonstrated that PCS worked well for tree detection in invaded forests (F-1-score = 80.63%), and the overall accuracy of tree species classification was 75.69%, with a kappa accuracy of 73.76%. The forest diversity analysis showed that all alpha-diversity values were generally predicted well (R-2 = 0.84-0.91, RMSE = 0.05-0.84). The diversity showed a decreasing tendency with increasing bamboo invasion, and the predominantly broad-leaved invaded forests had higher diversity than the predominantly coniferous invaded forests. The human intervention had a significant impact on bamboo invasion. The ANOVA of the dispersion of the dissimilarities along the elevation gradient showed significant differences in abundance-weighted similarity among the altitude classes (ANOVA of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, F-4,F-40 = 6.453, P = 0.0004***; ANOVA of the Jaccard dissimilarity, F-4,F-40 = 5.20, P = 0.0017**). This study indicated the potential benefits of using UAS-based remote sensing data to identify tree species and predict forest diversity in bamboo-invaded forests. Our results suggested that tree species diversity can be directly estimated using individual tree detection results based on PPC data instead of modelling the relationship between field-measured indices and remote sensing data-derived metrics, and revealed the influence of human intervention on bamboo invasion.		[Liu, Kun; Wang, Anke; Bi, Yufang; Wang, Yukui; Du, Xuhua] State Forestry Adm, China Natl Bamboo Res Ctr, Key Lab Resources & Utilizat Bamboo, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China; [Liu, Kun] Minist Ecol & Environm Peoples Republ China MEE, Nanjing Inst Environm Sci, Nanjing 210042, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Sujiong] Dapanshan Insect Inst Zhejiang, Panan 322300, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Zhenxian] Monitoring Ctr Forest Resources Zhejiang Prov, Hangzhou 310020, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Du, Xuhua] State Forestry Adm, China Natl Bamboo Res Ctr, Key Lab Resources & Utilizat Bamboo, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China								7							Remote Sensing	WOS:000721849200003		
J	DeClercq, Vanessa; Nearing, Jacob T.; Langille, Morgan G., I								Investigation of the impact of commonly used medications on the oral microbiome of individuals living without major chronic conditions								PLOS ONE				16	12					e0261032	10.1371/journal.pone.0261032			DEC 9 2021	2021	Background Commonly used medications produce changes in the gut microbiota, however, the impact of these medications on the composition of the oral microbiota is understudied. Methods Saliva samples were obtained from 846 females and 368 males aged 35-69 years from a Canadian population cohort, the Atlantic Partnership for Tomorrow's Health (PATH). Samples were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and differences in microbial community compositions between nonusers, single-, and multi-drug users as well as the 3 most commonly used medications (thyroid hormones, statins, and proton pump inhibitors (PPI)) were examined. Results Twenty-six percent of participants were taking 1 medication and 21% were reported taking 2 or more medications. Alpha diversity indices of Shannon diversity, Evenness, Richness, and Faith's phylogenetic diversity were similar among groups, likewise beta diversity as measured by Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (R-2 = 0.0029, P = 0.053) and weighted UniFrac distances (R-2 = 0.0028, P = 0.161) were non-significant although close to our alpha value threshold (P = 0.05). After controlling for covariates (sex, age, BMI), six genera (Saprospiraceae uncultured, Bacillus, Johnsonella, Actinobacillus, Stenotrophomonas, and Mycoplasma) were significantly different from non-medication users. Thyroid hormones, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) and PPI were the most reported medications. Shannon diversity differed significantly among those taking no medication and those taking only thyroid hormones, however, there were no significant difference in other measures of alpha- or beta diversity with single thyroid hormone, statin, or PPI use. Compared to participants taking no medications, the relative abundance of eight genera differed significantly in participants taking thyroid hormones, six genera differed in participants taking statins, and no significant differences were observed with participants taking PPI. Conclusion The results from this study show negligible effect of commonly used medications on microbial diversity and small differences in the relative abundance of specific taxa, suggesting a minimal influence of commonly used medication on the salivary microbiome of individuals living without major chronic conditions.		[DeClercq, Vanessa; Langille, Morgan G., I] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Pharmacol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [DeClercq, Vanessa] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Community Hlth & Epidemiol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [Nearing, Jacob T.; Langille, Morgan G., I] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Microbiol & Immunol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [DeClercq, Vanessa] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Pharmacol, Halifax, NS, Canada; [DeClercq, Vanessa] Dalhousie Univ, Dept Community Hlth & Epidemiol, Halifax, NS, Canada								5							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000755037200054		
J	Miranda-Garcia, Maria; Munoz-Pedreros, Andres; Norambuena, Heraldo								Waterbird assemblages of inland wetlands in Chile: A meta-analysis								NATURE CONSERVATION-BULGARIA					45			41	61		10.3897/natureconservation.45.74062			DEC 8 2021	2021	Chile has a large number of wetlands that offer a wide variety of refuges and food to waterbird assemblages. This research hypothesises that these assemblages differ according to the structural characteristics of each type of inland wetland. The object is to identify the structure of these assemblages, evaluating their richness, alpha alpha diversity and some ecological characteristics, taxonomic structures and trophic guilds. We performed a meta-analysis by submitting pre-selected articles to multivariate reliability analysis. The selected articles were used to characterise the assemblages by alpha alpha diversity: species richness, Shannon-Wiener index, Pielou's Evenness Index, relative abundance and taxonomic distinctiveness Delta + and beta beta diversity: Bray-Curtis with analysis of similarity percentage. Diversity and evenness differed in the seven wetlands studied, among 12 to 45 species, Shannon-Wiener index H'= 0.08 to 0.94 bits and Pielou's Evenness Index J'= 0.06 to 0.71. Four wetlands were below and three above the expected value for taxonomic distinctiveness (Delta +) (73.2 units). Two clusters were identified using the beta diversity: one consisting of the High-Andean wetlands (Huasco and Negro Francisco); and the other of El Peral lagoon, the Cruces River wetlands complex and the Tranque San Rafael man-made wetland. The most remarkable dissimilarity was provided by three species (Cygnus melancoryphus, Phoenicoparrus jamesi and Phoenicoparrus andinus). Zoophagous species that eat invertebrates by the first choice are the dominant group, while in lagoon wetlands phytophages and omnivores are more evenly represented.		[Miranda-Garcia, Maria] Univ Catolica Temuco, Programa Magister Recursos Nat, Temuco, Chile; [Miranda-Garcia, Maria] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Recursos Nat & Vet, Med Vet, Temuco, Chile; [Munoz-Pedreros, Andres] Univ Catolica Temuco, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Nucleo Estudios Ambientales, Temuco, Chile; [Norambuena, Heraldo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Bahia Lomas, Concepcion, Chile; [Norambuena, Heraldo] Ctr Estudios Agr & Ambientales, Programa Biodiversidad & Manejo Vida Silvestre, Valdivia, Chile; [Munoz-Pedreros, Andres] Univ Catolica Temuco, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Nucleo Estudios Ambientales, Temuco, Chile								2							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000743379600002		
J	Weiser, Frank; Sauer, Anna; Gettueva, Daria; Field, Richard; Irl, Severin D. H.; Vetaas, Ole; Chiarucci, Alessandro; Hoffmann, Samuel; Fernandez-Palacios, Jose Maria; Otto, Ruediger; Jentsch, Anke; Provenzale, Antonello; Beierkuhnlein, Carl								Impacts of Forest Fire on Understory Species Diversity in Canary Pine Ecosystems on the Island of La Palma								FORESTS				12	12					1638	10.3390/f12121638			DEC 2021	2021	Forest fires are drivers of spatial patterns and temporal dynamics of vegetation and biodiversity. On the Canary Islands, large areas of pine forest exist, dominated by the endemic Canary Island pine, Pinus canariensis C. Sm. These mostly natural forests experience wildfires frequently. P. canariensis is well-adapted to such impacts and has the ability to re-sprout from both stems and branches. In recent decades, however, anthropogenically caused fires have increased, and climate change further enhances the likelihood of large forest fires. Through its dense, long needles, P. canariensis promotes cloud precipitation, which is an important ecosystem service for the freshwater supply of islands such as La Palma. Thus, it is important to understand the regeneration and vegetation dynamics of these ecosystems after fire. Here, we investigated species diversity patterns in the understory vegetation of P. canariensis forests after the large 2016 fire on the southern slopes of La Palma. We analyzed the effect of fire intensity, derived from Sentinel-2 NDVI differences, and of environmental variables, on species richness (alpha diversity) and compositional dissimilarity (beta diversity). We used redundancy analysis (dbRDA), Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, and variance partitioning for this analysis. Fire intensity accounted for a relatively small proportion of variation in alpha and beta diversity, while elevation was the most important predictor. Our results also reveal the important role of the endemic Lotus campylocladus ssp. hillebrandii (Christ) Sandral & D.D.Sokoloff for understory diversity after fire. Its dominance likely reduces the ability of other species to establish by taking up nutrients and water and by shading the ground. The mid- to long-term effects are unclear since Lotus is an important nitrogen fixer in P. canariensis forests and can reduce post-fire soil erosion on steep slopes.		[Weiser, Frank; Hoffmann, Samuel; Beierkuhnlein, Carl] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Biogeog, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Sauer, Anna] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Agroecol, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Gettueva, Daria] Adelphi, Climate Policy, Alt Moabit 91, D-10559 Berlin, Germany; [Field, Richard] Univ Nottingham, Sch Geog, Nottingham NG7 2RD, England; [Irl, Severin D. H.] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Phys Geog, Biogeog & Biodivers Lab, Altenhoferallee 1, D-60438 Frankfurt, Germany; [Vetaas, Ole] Univ Bergen, Dept Geog, N-5020 Bergen, Norway; [Chiarucci, Alessandro] Univ Bologna, BIOME Lab, Dept Biol Geol & Environm Sci, I-40126 Bologna, Italy; [Fernandez-Palacios, Jose Maria; Otto, Ruediger] Univ La Laguna, Dept Bot Ecol & Fisiol Vegetal, San Cristobal De Laguna 38200, Sc De Tenerife, Spain; [Jentsch, Anke] Disturbance Ecol, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Provenzale, Antonello] Natl Res Council Italy CNR, Inst Geosci & Earth Resources, Via G Moruzzi 1, I-56124 Pisa, Italy; [Beierkuhnlein, Carl] Bayreuth Ctr Ecol & Environm Sci BayCEER, Dr Hans Frisch Str I-3, D-95448 Bayreuth, Germany; [Beierkuhnlein, Carl] Geog Inst Bayreuth GIB, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany; [Weiser, Frank] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Biogeog, Univ Str 30, D-95447 Bayreuth, Germany								3							Forestry	WOS:000744674100001		
J	Nielsen, Karen Leth; Olsen, Markus Harboe; Palleja, Albert; Ebdrup, Soren Roddik; Sorensen, Nikolaj; Lukjancenko, Oksana; Marvig, Rasmus L.; Moller, Kirsten; Frimodt-Moller, Niels; Hertz, Frederik Boetius								Microbiome Compositions and Resistome Levels after Antibiotic Treatment of Critically Ill Patients: An Observational Cohort Study								MICROORGANISMS				9	12					2542	10.3390/microorganisms9122542			DEC 2021	2021	Hospitalization and treatment with antibiotics increase the risk of acquiring multidrug-resistant bacteria due to antibiotic-mediated changes in patient microbiota. This study aimed to investigate how broad- and narrow-spectrum antibiotics affect the gut microbiome and the resistome in antibiotic naive patients during neurointensive care. Patients admitted to the neurointensive care unit were treated with broad-spectrum (meropenem or piperacillin/tazobactam) or narrow-spectrum antibiotic treatment (including ciprofloxacin, cefuroxime, vancomycin and dicloxacillin) according to clinical indications. A rectal swab was collected from each patient before and after 5-7 days of antibiotic therapy (N = 34), respectively. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing was performed and the composition of metagenomic species (MGS) was determined. The resistome was characterized with CARD RGI software and the CARD database. As a measure for selection pressure in the patient, we used the sum of the number of days with each antibiotic (antibiotic days). We observed a significant increase in richness and a tendency for an increase in the Shannon index after narrow-spectrum treatment. For broad-spectrum treatment the effect was more diverse, with some patients increasing and some decreasing in richness and Shannon index. This was studied further by comparison of patients who had gained or lost >10 MGS, respectively. Selection pressure was significantly higher in patients with decreased richness and a decreased Shannon index who received the broad treatment. A decrease in MGS richness was significantly correlated to the number of drugs administered and the selection pressure in the patient. Bray-Curtis dissimilarities were significant between the pre- and post-treatment of samples in the narrow group, indicating that the longer the narrow-spectrum treatment, the higher the differences between the pre- and the post-treatment microbial composition. We did not find significant differences between pre- and post-treatment for both antibiotic spectrum treatments; however, we observed that most of the antibiotic class resistance genes were higher in abundance in post-treatment after broad-spectrum treatment.		[Nielsen, Karen Leth; Frimodt-Moller, Niels; Hertz, Frederik Boetius] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Clin Microbiol, Rigshosp, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Olsen, Markus Harboe; Ebdrup, Soren Roddik; Moller, Kirsten] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Neuroanaesthesiol, Rigshosp, Neurosci Ctr, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Palleja, Albert; Sorensen, Nikolaj; Lukjancenko, Oksana] Clin Microbi, Fruebjergvej 3, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Marvig, Rasmus L.] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Genom Med, Rigshosp, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Moller, Kirsten] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Clin Med, Blegdamsvej 3B, DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark; [Nielsen, Karen Leth] Copenhagen Univ Hosp, Dept Clin Microbiol, Rigshosp, Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark								4							Microbiology	WOS:000735494000001		
J	Morita, Hiroki; Akao, Satoshi								The effect of soil sample size, for practical DNA extraction, on soil microbial diversity in different taxonomic ranks								PLOS ONE				16	11					e0260121	10.1371/journal.pone.0260121			NOV 18 2021	2021	To determine the optimal soil sample size for microbial community structure analysis, DNA extraction, microbial composition analysis, and diversity assessments were performed using soil sample sizes of 0.2, 1, and 5 g. This study focused on the relationship between soil amount and DNA extraction container volume and the alteration in microbial composition at different taxonomic ranks (order, class, and phylum). Horizontal (0.2 and 1 g) and vertical (5 g) shaking were applied during DNA extraction for practical use in a small laboratory. In the case of the 5 g soil sample, DNA extraction efficiency and the value of a-diversity index fluctuated severely, possibly because of vertical shaking. Regarding the 0.2 and 1 g soil samples, the number of taxa, Shannon-Wiener index, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity were stable and had approximately the same values at each taxonomic rank. However, nonmetric multidimensional scaling showed that the microbial compositions of these two sample sizes were different. The higher relative abundance of taxa in the case of the 0.2 g soil sample might indicate that cell wall compositions differentiated the microbial community structures in these two sample sizes due to high shear stress tolerance. The soil sample size and tube volume affected the estimated microbial community structure. A soil sample size of 0.2 g would be preferable to the other sample sizes because of the possible higher shearing force for DNA extraction and lower experimental costs due to smaller amounts of consumables. When the taxonomic rank was changed from order to phylum, some minor taxa identified at the order rank were integrated into major taxa at the phylum rank. The integration affected the value of the beta-diversity index; therefore, the microbial community structure analysis, reproducibility of structures, diversity assessment, and detection of minor taxa would be influenced by the taxonomic rank applied.		[Morita, Hiroki; Akao, Satoshi] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Engn, Kyotanabe, Kyoto, Japan; [Akao, Satoshi] Doshisha Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Engn, Kyotanabe, Kyoto, Japan								6							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000755319200103		
J	Kenmotsu, Harutaro; Takabayashi, Emi; Takase, Akinori; Hirose, Yuu; Eki, Toshihiko								Use of universal primers for the 18S ribosomal RNA gene and whole soil DNAs to reveal the taxonomic structures of soil nematodes by high-throughput amplicon sequencing								PLOS ONE				16	11					e0259842	10.1371/journal.pone.0259842			NOV 15 2021	2021	Nematodes are abundant metazoans that play crucial roles in nutrient recycle in the pedosphere. Although high-throughput amplicon sequencing is a powerful tool for the taxonomic profiling of soil nematodes, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers for amplification of the 18S ribosomal RNA (SSU) gene and preparation of template DNAs have not been sufficiently evaluated. We investigated nematode community structure in copse soil using four nematode-specific (regions 1-4) and two universal (regions U1 and U2) primer sets for the SSU gene regions with two DNAs prepared from copse-derived mixed nematodes and whole soil. The major nematode-derived sequence variants (SVs) identified in each region was detected in both template DNAs. Order level taxonomy and feeding type of identified nematode-derived SVs were distantly related between the two DNA preparations, and the region U2 was closely related to region 4 in the non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. Thus, the universal primers for region U2 could be used to analyze soil nematode communities. We further applied this method to analyze the nematodes living in two sampling sites of a sweet potato-cultivated field, where the plants were differently growing. The structure of nematode-derived SVs from the two sites was distantly related in the principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) with weighted unifrac distances, suggesting their distinct soil environments. The resultant ecophysiological status of the nematode communities in the copse and field on the basis of feeding behavior and maturity indices was fairly consistent with those of the copse- and the cultivated house garden-derived nematodes in prior studies. These findings will be useful for the DNA metabarcoding of soil eukaryotes, including nematodes, using soil DNAs.		[Kenmotsu, Harutaro; Takabayashi, Emi; Takase, Akinori; Hirose, Yuu; Eki, Toshihiko] Toyohashi Univ Technol, Dept Appl Chem & Life Sci, Mol Genet Lab, Toyohashi, Aichi, Japan; [Hirose, Yuu; Eki, Toshihiko] Toyohashi Univ Technol, Res Ctr Agrotechnol & Biotechnol, Toyohashi, Aichi, Japan; [Eki, Toshihiko] Toyohashi Univ Technol, Dept Appl Chem & Life Sci, Mol Genet Lab, Toyohashi, Aichi, Japan; [Eki, Toshihiko] Toyohashi Univ Technol, Res Ctr Agrotechnol & Biotechnol, Toyohashi, Aichi, Japan								2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000755305800057		
J	Iriarte-Cardenas, Steven; Garcia-Martinez, Stevens; David Mercado-Gomez, Jorge								Beta diversity analyses reveal distinct bryophyte community assemblages on different substrates in Neotropical seasonally dry forest fragments of the Colombian Caribbean								JOURNAL OF BRYOLOGY				43	4			355	367		10.1080/03736687.2021.2009268			OCT 2 2021	2021	Introduction Bryophytes in Colombia mainly inhabit humid forest, but some species have been found in fragments of dry forest in Montes de Maria in the Colombian Caribbean. However, it is unknown whether bryophytes have shaped communities associated with different substrates. Methods Bryophyte diversity was surveyed in nine plots at three localities: Chalan, Coloso and Toluviejo. To determine whether different communities were associated with particular substrates, we used the alpha diversity (Hill numbers), beta diversity and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was also used to determine whether these communities were the result of turnover or nestedness. Key results A total of 30 species of moss and 11 species of liverwort were identified. The most species-rich families were Neckeraceae and Pottiaceae for mosses and Lejeuneaceae and Frullaniaceae for liverworts. These plants inhabit bark, rock, soil and decaying wood substrates. Bark and rock were the most species-diverse substrates at all localities; soil and decaying wood were less diverse. Two main assemblages were detected, both shaped mainly by turnover: (i) bryophytes on bark/decaying wood and (ii) those on rock/soil. However, bryophytes on rock and soil formed two different communities in Chalan and Coloso, and bryophytes on bark/decaying wood were the most diverse community in Montes de Maria. Conclusions Beta diversity analyses revealed communities associated with different substrates and apparently shaped by environmental filters and dispersal limitations. The analyses thus provide important ecological information on bryophyte ecology. However, more detailed information is required to understand how these communities have arisen.		[Iriarte-Cardenas, Steven; Garcia-Martinez, Stevens] Univ Sucre, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Barrio Puerta Roja, Sincelejo, Colombia; [David Mercado-Gomez, Jorge] Univ Sucre, Dept Biol & Quim, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Barrio Puerta Roja, Sincelejo, Colombia; [David Mercado-Gomez, Jorge] Univ Sucre, Dept Biol & Quim, Grp Evoluc & Sistemat Trop, Barrio Puerta Roja, Sincelejo, Colombia								1							Plant Sciences	WOS:000748764000006		
J	Podesta, Jorge; Barona, Daniel								Abundance of shorebirds (Charadriiformes: Scolopacidae) and its relationship with water temperature in a wetland in Peru (2013-2019)								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				69	4			1322	1332		10.15517/rbt.v69i4.48080			OCT-DEC 2021	2021	Introduction: Scolopacidae family (Order: Charadriiformes) is one of the most abundant families found in coastal wetlands. La Arenilla coastal wetland has a historical record of 20 scolopacid species; climatic events could affect the distribution and migration of the several species of this taxonomic family, reducing their species richness and abundance. Objective: The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between richness and abundance of the species belonging to the Scolopacidae family and both Sea Surface Temperature (SST) and the coastal El Nino index (ICEN) in La Arenilla Coastal Wetland, La Punta, Callao. Methods: Sampling were carried out twice a month, between January 2013 and January 2019 using the Total Count Method in order to determine species abundance (N = 292). A Spearman correlation analysis between abundance, species richness, SST and ICEN was performed, and beta diversity was calculated through the Whittaker index (beta w) to analyze both the annual turnover for each season and the seasonal turnover within each year. Results: Two significant correlations were obtained: between SST and abundance and between ICEN and species richness. On the other hand, the ANOSIM test showed seasonal differences in abundance, and the SIMPER test showed that the greatest difference in abundance between seasons was between autumn and spring (Bray Curtis dissimilarity = 81.57 %), and the minimum difference between winter and spring (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity = 49.86 %). Conclusions: The ecological dynamics of scolopacid communities in La Arenilla coastal wetland face important changes according to the variations in the environmental thermal parameters related to climate change.		[Podesta, Jorge] Univ Nacl Mayor San Marcos, Programa Maestria Biodiversidad & Gest Ecosistema, Fac Ciencias Biol, Lima, Peru; [Barona, Daniel] Univ Cient Sur, Dept Ciencias Vida & Salud, Lima, Peru; [Podesta, Jorge] Univ Nacl Mayor San Marcos, Programa Maestria Biodiversidad & Gest Ecosistema, Fac Ciencias Biol, Lima, Peru								0							Biology	WOS:000733762000003		
J	Hazan, Sabine; Dave, Sonya; Papoutsis, Andreas J.; Barrows, Brad D.; Borody, Thomas J.								Successful Bacterial Engraftment Identified by Next-Generation Sequencing Predicts Success of Fecal Microbiota Transplant for <i>Clostridioides difficile</i>								GASTROENTEROLOGY RESEARCH				14	5			304	309		10.14740/gr1434			OCT 2021	2021	Background: The effectiveness of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), a treatment for Clostridioides difficile infection (CDT), is dependent on successful engraftment (incorporation) of donor stool. We present a method for evaluating engraftment success based on next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based profiling of bacterial strains present in donor and recipient stool, and we suggest its potential to guide treatment decisions. Methods: Bacterial strains in stool samples from three patients from the clinic and one donor were analyzed via NGS and metagenomic sequencing, before and 1 month after FMT for CDI. The similarity of strains present was assessed via relative abundance, principal component analysis, Shannon and Simpson diversity indexes, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix. A positive outcome was successful engraftment, where the post-FMT sample closely resembled that of the donor and CDI was cured. Results: Patients (Pts.) 1 and 2, but not Pt. 3's stool samples closely resembled the donor specimen post-FMT. Noteworthy, Pt 3 pre-FMT sample was less similar to the donor than that of Pts. 1 and 2. All methods of assessing similarity and dissimilarity used yielded virtually identical conclusions. Pts. 1 and 2 which closely resembled donor specimen, eradicated CDI giving a surrogate objective measure of engraftment. Conclusions: Success of engraftment in FMT can be assessed using NGS and metagenomic analysis and parallels success in curing CDI of the microbiome. The statistical methods we present here are reliable and consistent for such purposes. The dissimilarity of Pt. 3 to the donor combined with the failure of engraftment and failure to cure CDI in Pt. 3 suggests that FMT success may be predictable by comparing pre-FMT samples to donor. There is no clinical trial registry listing this study.		[Hazan, Sabine; Papoutsis, Andreas J.; Barrows, Brad D.] ProgenaBiome, 1845 Knoll Dr, Ventura, CA 93003 USA; [Dave, Sonya] Microbiome Res, 1845 Knoll Dr, Ventura, CA 93003 USA; [Borody, Thomas J.] Ctr Digest Dis, 229 Great North Rd, Five Dock, NSW 2046, Australia; [Hazan, Sabine] ProgenaBiome, 1845 Knoll Dr, Ventura, CA 93003 USA								2							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000708371500007		
J	Kim, Taegyu; Behrens, Sebastian; LaPara, Timothy M.								Direct Evidence for Deterministic Assembly of Bacterial Communities in Full-Scale Municipal Wastewater Treatment Facilities								APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY				87	20					e01086-21	10.1128/AEM.01086-21			OCT 2021	2021	In this study, we investigated whether bacterial community composition in full-scale wastewater treatment bioreactors can be better explained by niche- or neutral-based theory (deterministic or stochastic) and whether bioreactor design (continuous flow versus fill and draw) affected community assembly. Four wastewater treatment facilities (one with quadruplicated continuous-flow bioreactors, two with one continuous-flow bioreactor each, and one with triplicate fill-and-draw bioreactors) were investigated. Bioreactor community composition was characterized by sequencing of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments. Replicate bioreactors at the same wastewater treatment facility had largely reproducible (i.e., deterministic) bacterial community composition, although bacterial community composition in continuousflow bioreactors was significantly more reproducible (P < 0.001) than in fill-and-draw bioreactors (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, mu = 0.48 +/- 0.06 versus 058 +/- 0.08). Next, we compared our results to previously used indirect methods for distinguishing between deterministic and stochastic community assembly mechanisms. Synchronicity was observed in the bacterial community composition among bioreactors within the same metropolitan region, consistent with deterministic community assembly. Similarly, a null model-based analysis also indicated that all wastewater bioreactor communities were controlled by deterministic factors and that continuous-flow bioreactors were significantly more deterministic (P < 0.001) than fill-and-draw bioreactors (nearest-taxon index, mu = 3.8 +/- 0.6 versus 2.7 +/- 0.8). Our results indicate that bacterial community composition in wastewater treatment bioreactors is better explained by deterministic community assembly theory; simultaneously, our results validate previously used but indirect methods to quantify whether microbial communities were assembled via deterministic or stochastic mechanisms. IMPORTANCE Understanding the mechanisms of bacterial community assembly is one of the grand challenges of microbial ecology. In environmental systems, this challenge is exacerbated because replicate experiments are typically impossible; that is, microbial ecologists cannot fabricate multiple field-scale experiments of identical, natural ecosystems. Our results directly demonstrate that deterministic mechanisms are more prominent than stochastic mechanisms in the assembly of wastewater treatment bioreactor communities. Our results also suggest that wastewater treatment bioreactor design is pertinent, such that the imposition of feast-famine conditions (i.e., fill-and-draw bioreactors) nudge bacterial community assembly more toward stochastic mechanisms than the imposition of stringent nutrient limitation (i.e., continuous-flow bioreactors). Our research also validates the previously used indirect methods (synchronous community dynamics and an application of a null model) for characterizing the relative importance of deterministic versus stochastic mechanisms of community assembly.		[Kim, Taegyu; Behrens, Sebastian; LaPara, Timothy M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Dept Civil Environm & Geoengn, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Behrens, Sebastian; LaPara, Timothy M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Biotechnol Inst, St Paul, MN 55455 USA; [LaPara, Timothy M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Dept Civil Environm & Geoengn, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [LaPara, Timothy M.] Univ Minnesota Twin Cities, Biotechnol Inst, St Paul, MN 55455 USA								4							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Microbiology	WOS:000703558500013		
J	Ji, Fenfen; Han, Dingyi; Yan, Liang; Yan, Saihong; Zha, Jinmiao; Shen, Jianzhong								Assessment of benthic invertebrate diversity and river ecological status along an urbanized gradient using environmental DNA metabarcoding and a traditional survey method								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				806						150587	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.150587			FEB 1 2022	2022	Benthic invertebrate diversity is one of the most commonly used bioindicators for assessing aquatic ecosystem health in river systems. Although an increasing number of studies have focused on assessing benthic invertebrate diversity using environmental DNA metabarcoding and traditional survey methods, benthic invertebrate diver-sity and ecological status assessments performed across different landscapes within river systems have not been well documented. Here, the diversity and ecological status of benthic invertebrates and the influence of water quality on the invertebrate assemblage distribution along an urbanization gradient in rivers from the Jingjinji (JJJ) region, China, were investigated using eDNA metabarcoding and the traditional method. With the combination of the two methods, 395 benthic invertebrates from 6 phyla, 27 orders, 94 families, and 222 genera were identified. The species richness of the benthic invertebrate community in the mountain area was significantly higher than that in the urban and agricultural areas. Compared to the traditional results, eDNA metabarcoding obtained a significantly greater number of species from every sampling site (P = 0.000) and detected a notably higher abundance in Annelida (P = 0.000). Furthermore, the nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) and permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index indicated that the benthic invertebrate communities from the different habitats were discriminated more accurately and easily using eDNA metabarcoding (P = 0.038) than with the traditional method (P = 0.829). Additionally, the assemblages identified by eDNA metabarcoding were more closely linked to water quality and could be realistically used to assess the ecological status of rivers. Our findings highlight that eDNA metabarcoding could represent a rapid and reliable method for estimating benthic invertebrate diversity and ecological status in river systems. (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Ji, Fenfen; Han, Dingyi; Shen, Jianzhong] Huazhong Agr Univ, Coll Fisheries, Engn Res Ctr Green Dev Convent Aquat Biol Ind Yan, Minist Educ, Wuhan 430070, Peoples R China; [Ji, Fenfen; Han, Dingyi; Yan, Liang; Yan, Saihong; Zha, Jinmiao] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, Key Lab Drinking Water Sci & Technol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Ji, Fenfen; Han, Dingyi; Yan, Liang; Yan, Saihong; Zha, Jinmiao] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Zha, Jinmiao] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, Key Lab Drinking Water Sci & Technol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Shen, Jianzhong] Huazhong Agr Univ, Coll Fisheries, Wuhan 430070, Peoples R China								10							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000709711800001		
J	Seibert, Brittany; Caceres, C. Joaquin; Cardenas-Garcia, Stivalis; Carnaccini, Silvia; Geiger, Ginger; Rajao, Daniela S.; Ottesen, Elizabeth; Perez, Daniel R.								Mild and Severe SARS-CoV-2 Infection Induces Respiratory and Intestinal Microbiome Changes in the K18-hACE2 Transgenic Mouse Model								MICROBIOLOGY SPECTRUM				9	1					e00536-21	10.1128/Spectrum.00536-21			SEP 2021	2021	Transmission of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has resulted in millions of deaths and declining economies around the world. K18-hACE2 mice develop disease resembling severe SARS-CoV-2 infection in a virus dose-dependent manner. The relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and the intestinal or respiratory microbiome is not fully understood. In this context, we characterized the cecal and lung microbiomes of SARS-CoV-2-challenged K18-hACE2 transgenic mice in the presence or absence of treatment with the Mpro inhibitor GC-376. Cecum microbiome showed decreased Shannon and inverse (Inv) Simpson diversity indexes correlating with SARS-CoV-2 infection dosage and a difference of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity distances among control and infected mice. Bacterial phyla such as Firmicutes, particularly, Lachnospiraceae and Oscillospiraceae, were significantly less abundant, while Verrucomicrobia, particularly, the family Akkermansiaceae, were increasingly more prevalent during peak infection in mice challenged with a high virus dose. In contrast to the cecal microbiome, the lung microbiome showed similar microbial diversity among the control, low-, and high-dose challenge virus groups, independent of antiviral treatment. Bacterial phyla in the lungs such as Bacteroidetes decreased, while Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were significantly enriched in mice challenged with a high dose of SARS-CoV-2. In summary, we identified changes in the cecal and lung microbiomes of K18-hACE2 mice with severe clinical signs of SARS-CoV-2 infection. IMPORTANCE The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in millions of deaths. The host's respiratory and intestinal microbiome can affect directly or indirectly the immune system during viral infections. We characterized the cecal and lung microbiomes in a relevant mouse model challenged with a low or high dose of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in the presence or absence of an antiviral Mpro inhibitor, GC-376. Decreased microbial diversity and taxonomic abundances of the phyla Firmicutes, particularly, Lachnospiraceae, correlating with infection dosage were observed in the cecum. In addition, microbes within the family Akkermansiaceae were increasingly more prevalent during peak infection, which is observed in other viral infections. The lung microbiome showed similar microbial diversity to that of the control, independent of antiviral treatment. Decreased Bacteroidetes and increased Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were observed in the lungs in a virus dose-dependent manner. These studies add to a better understanding of the complexities associated with the intestinal microbiome during respiratory infections.		[Seibert, Brittany; Caceres, C. Joaquin; Cardenas-Garcia, Stivalis; Geiger, Ginger; Rajao, Daniela S.; Perez, Daniel R.] Univ Georgia, Coll Vet Med, Dept Populat Hlth, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Carnaccini, Silvia] Univ Georgia, Coll Vet Med, Tifton Diagnost Lab, Tifton, GA USA; [Ottesen, Elizabeth] Univ Georgia, Dept Microbiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Perez, Daniel R.] Univ Georgia, Coll Vet Med, Dept Populat Hlth, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Ottesen, Elizabeth] Univ Georgia, Dept Microbiol, Athens, GA 30602 USA								16							Microbiology	WOS:000757075200021		
J	Grzes, Irena M.; Rozej-Pabijan, Elzbieta; Stefanowicz, Anna M.; Woch, Marcin W.								Community composition of ants beneath invasive plant <i>Rosa rugosa</i>								ENTOMOLOGICAL SCIENCE				24	4			361	365		10.1111/ens.12488			DEC 2021	2021	Planting of Japanese rose Rosa rugosa along the Baltic Sea coastline has contributed to the synanthropization of coastal ecosystems. Many ant species inhabiting coastal dunes are rare, have high conservation value and are sensitive to ecosystem disturbances. This short communication presents a study describing the species composition of ground-nesting ants beneath the invasive plant Rosa rugosa. Twenty-five paired invaded-native plots were established along the Hel Peninsula in gray and white dunes. We identified a total of 13 species within both the invaded and reference plots, of which 11 species were shared. The difference between reference and invaded plots was tested using permutational multivariate anova based on the Bray-Curtis index dissimilarity matrix. Permutational multivariate anova partitioning showed the greatest component was the residual, and there was no evidence for vegetation type effect. Thus, we did not confirm the negative influence of R. rugosa invasion on the community composition of ground-nesting ants. Comparing the species composition of invaded and reference plots, we identified a small bias towards a slightly higher frequency of hygrophilous Myrmica species and a higher frequency of the psammophilous ant Lasius psammophilus, which raises the question for future investigations of whether R. rugosa creates nesting microhabitats preferred by hygrophilous ants.		[Grzes, Irena M.] Agr Univ, Dept Zool & Anim Welf, Al Mickiewicza 24-28, PL-30059 Krakow, Poland; [Rozej-Pabijan, Elzbieta] Pedag Univ Krakow, Inst Biol, Krakow, Poland; [Stefanowicz, Anna M.] Polish Acad Sci, W Szafer Inst Bot, Krakow, Poland; [Woch, Marcin W.] Nicolaus Copernicus Univ, Dept Geobot & Landscape Planning, Torun, Poland; [Grzes, Irena M.] Agr Univ, Dept Zool & Anim Welf, Al Mickiewicza 24-28, PL-30059 Krakow, Poland								1							Entomology	WOS:000691404200001		
J	Kim, Hanbeen; Park, Tansol; Kwon, Inhyuk; Seo, Jakyeom								Specific inhibition of <i>Streptococcus bovis</i> by endolysin LyJH307 supplementation shifts the rumen microbiota and metabolic pathways related to carbohydrate metabolism								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE AND BIOTECHNOLOGY				12	1					93	10.1186/s40104-021-00614-x			AUG 4 2021	2021	Background Endolysins, the bacteriophage-originated peptidoglycan hydrolases, are a promising replacement for antibiotics due to immediate lytic activity and no antibiotic resistance. The objectives of this study were to investigate the lytic activity of endolysin LyJH307 against S. bovis and to explore changes in rumen fermentation and microbiota in an in vitro system. Two treatments were used: 1) control, corn grain without LyJH307; and 2) LyJH307, corn grain with LyJH307 (4 U/mL). An in vitro fermentation experiment was performed using mixture of rumen fluid collected from two cannulated Holstein steers (450 +/- 30 kg) and artificial saliva buffer mixed as 1:3 ratio for 12 h incubation time. In vitro dry matter digestibility, pH, volatile fatty acids, and lactate concentration were estimated at 12 h, and the gas production was measured at 6, 9, and 12 h. The rumen bacterial community was analyzed using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Results LyJH307 supplementation at 6 h incubation markedly decreased the absolute abundance of S. bovis (approximately 70% compared to control, P = 0.0289) and increased ruminal pH (P = 0.0335) at the 12 h incubation. The acetate proportion (P = 0.0362) was significantly increased after LyJH307 addition, whereas propionate (P = 0.0379) was decreased. LyJH307 supplementation increased D-lactate (P = 0.0340) without any change in L-lactate concentration (P > 0.10). There were no significant differences in Shannon's index, Simpson's index, Chao1 estimates, and evenness (P > 0.10). Based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices, the LyJH307 affected the overall shift in microbiota (P = 0.097). LyJH307 supplementation induced an increase of 11 genera containing Lachnoclostridium, WCHB1-41, unclassified genus Selenomonadaceae, Paraprevotella, vadinBE97, Ruminococcus gauvreauii group, Lactobacillus, Anaerorhabdus furcosa group, Victivallaceae, Desulfuromonadaceae, and Sediminispirochaeta. The predicted functional features represented by the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways were changed by LyJH307 toward a decrease of carbohydrate metabolism. Conclusions LyJH307 caused a reduction of S. bovis and an increase of pH with shifts in minor microbiota and its metabolic pathways related to carbohydrate metabolism. This study provides the first insight into the availability of endolysin as a specific modulator for rumen and shows the possibility of endolysin degradation by rumen microbiota.		[Kim, Hanbeen; Seo, Jakyeom] Pusan Natl Univ, Life & Ind Convergence Res Inst, Dept Anim Sci, 1268-50 Samrangjin Ro, Miryang 50463, South Korea; [Park, Tansol] Chung Ang Univ, Dept Anim Sci & Technol, Anseong 17546, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Kwon, Inhyuk] EASY BIO Inc, Seoul 06253, South Korea; [Seo, Jakyeom] Pusan Natl Univ, Life & Ind Convergence Res Inst, Dept Anim Sci, 1268-50 Samrangjin Ro, Miryang 50463, South Korea								8							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000680901300001		
J	Homann, Chiara-Maria; Rossel, Connor A. J.; Dizzell, Sara; Bervoets, Liene; Simioni, Julia; Li, Jenifer; Gunn, Elizabeth; Surette, Michael G.; de Souza, Russell J.; Mommers, Monique; Hutton, Eileen K.; Morrison, Katherine M.; Penders, John; van Best, Niels; Stearns, Jennifer C.								Infants' First Solid Foods: Impact on Gut Microbiota Development in Two Intercontinental Cohorts								NUTRIENTS				13	8					2639	10.3390/nu13082639			AUG 2021	2021	The introduction of solid foods is an important dietary event during infancy that causes profound shifts in the gut microbial composition towards a more adult-like state. Infant gut bacterial dynamics, especially in relation to nutritional intake remain understudied. Over 2 weeks surrounding the time of solid food introduction, the day-to-day dynamics in the gut microbiomes of 24 healthy, full-term infants from the Baby, Food & Mi and LucKi-Gut cohort studies were investigated in relation to their dietary intake. Microbial richness (observed species) and diversity (Shannon index) increased over time and were positively associated with dietary diversity. Microbial community structure (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) was determined predominantly by individual and age (days). The extent of change in community structure in the introductory period was negatively associated with daily dietary diversity. High daily dietary diversity stabilized the gut microbiome. Bifidobacterial taxa were positively associated, while taxa of the genus Veillonella, that may be the same species, were negatively associated with dietary diversity in both cohorts. This study furthers our understanding of the impact of solid food introduction on gut microbiome development in early life. Dietary diversity seems to have the greatest impact on the gut microbiome as solids are introduced.		[Homann, Chiara-Maria; Dizzell, Sara; Surette, Michael G.; Stearns, Jennifer C.] McMaster Univ, Dept Med, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5, Canada; [Homann, Chiara-Maria; Gunn, Elizabeth; Morrison, Katherine M.] McMaster Univ, Dept Pediat, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [Homann, Chiara-Maria; Gunn, Elizabeth; Morrison, Katherine M.] McMaster Univ, Ctr Metab Obes & Diabet Res, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [Rossel, Connor A. J.; Bervoets, Liene; Penders, John; van Best, Niels] Maastricht Univ, Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab NUTRIM, Dept Med Microbiol, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands; [Simioni, Julia; Li, Jenifer; Hutton, Eileen K.] McMaster Univ, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [Li, Jenifer; Hutton, Eileen K.] McMaster Univ, McMaster Midwifery Res Ctr, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [Surette, Michael G.; Stearns, Jennifer C.] McMaster Univ, Farncombe Family Digest Hlth Res Inst, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [de Souza, Russell J.] McMaster Univ, Dept Hlth Res Methods Evidence & Impact, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [de Souza, Russell J.] Hamilton Hlth Sci Corp, Populat Hlth Res Inst, Hamilton, ON L8L 2X2, Canada; [Mommers, Monique] Maastricht Univ, Care & Publ Hlth Res Inst CAPHRI, Dept Epidemiol, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands; [Penders, John; van Best, Niels] World Univ Network WUN, InVivo Planetary Hlth, West New York, NJ 10704 USA; [Penders, John] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, Care & Publ Hlth Res Inst CAPHRI, Dept Med Microbiol, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands; [van Best, Niels] RWTH Univ, Hosp Aachen, Inst Med Microbiol, D-52074 Aachen, Germany; [Stearns, Jennifer C.] McMaster Univ, Dept Med, Hamilton, ON L8N 3Z5, Canada; [van Best, Niels] Maastricht Univ, Sch Nutr & Translat Res Metab NUTRIM, Dept Med Microbiol, NL-6229 ER Maastricht, Netherlands; [Stearns, Jennifer C.] McMaster Univ, Farncombe Family Digest Hlth Res Inst, Hamilton, ON L8S 4K1, Canada; [van Best, Niels] World Univ Network WUN, InVivo Planetary Hlth, West New York, NJ 10704 USA; [van Best, Niels] RWTH Univ, Hosp Aachen, Inst Med Microbiol, D-52074 Aachen, Germany								18							Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000689750500001		
J	Chen, Zhangling; Radjabzadeh, Djawad; Chen, Lianmin; Kurilshikov, Alexander; Kavousi, Maryam; Ahmadizar, Fariba; Ikram, M. Arfan; Uitterlinden, Andre G.; Zhernakova, Alexandra; Fu, Jingyuan; Kraaij, Robert; Voortman, Trudy								Association of Insulin Resistance and Type 2 Diabetes With Gut Microbial Diversity A Microbiome-Wide Analysis From Population Studies								JAMA NETWORK OPEN				4	7					e2118811	10.1001/jamanetworkopen.2021.18811			JUL 29 2021	2021	IMPORTANCE Previous studies have indicated that gut microbiome may be associated with development of type 2 diabetes. However, these studies are limited by small sample size and insufficient for confounding. Furthermore, which specific taxa play a role in the development of type 2 diabetes remains unclear. OBJECTIVE To examine associations of gut microbiome composition with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes in a large population-based setting controlling for various sociodemographic and lifestyle factors. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS This cross-sectional analysis included 2166 participants from 2 Dutch population-based prospective cohorts: the Rotterdam Study and the LifeLines-DEEP study. EXPOSURES The 16S ribosomal RNA method was used to measure microbiome composition in stool samples collected between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013. The alpha diversity (Shannon, richness, and Inverse Simpson indexes), beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix), and taxa (from domain to genus level) were identified to reflect gut microbiome composition. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Associations among alpha diversity, beta diversity, and taxa with the Homeostatic Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR) and with type 2 diabetes were examined. Glucose and insulin were measured to calculate the HOMA-IR. Type 2 diabetes cases were identified based on glucose levels and medical records from January 2012 to December 2013. Analyses were adjusted for technical covariates, lifestyle, sociodemographic, and medical factors. Data analysis was performed from January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2020. RESULTS There were 2166 participants in this study: 1418 from the Rotterdam Study (mean [SD] age, 62.4 [5.9] years; 815 [57.5%] male) and 748 from the LifeLines-DEEP study (mean [SD] age, 44.7 [13.4] years; 431 [57.6%] male); from this total, 193 type 2 diabetes cases were identified. Lower microbiome Shannon index and richness were associated with higher HOMA-IR (eg, Shannon index, -0.06; 95% CI, -0.10 to -0.02), and patients with type 2 diabetes had a lower richness than participants without diabetes (odds ratio [OR], 0.93; 95% CI, 0.88-0.99). The beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix) was associated with insulin resistance (R-2 = 0.004, P = .001 in the Rotterdam Study and R-2 = 0.005, P = .002 in the LifeLines-DEEP study). A total of 12 groups of bacteria were associated with HOMA-IR or type 2 diabetes. Specifically, a higher abundance of Christensenellaceae (beta = -0.08; 95% CI, -0.12 to -0.03: P < .001), Christensenellaceae R7 group (beta = -0.07; 95% CI, -0.12 to -0.03; P < .001), Marvinbryantia (beta = -0.07; 95% CI, -0.11 to -0.03; P < .001), Ruminococcaceae UCG005 (beta = -0.09; 95% CI, -0.13 to -0.05; P < .001), Ruminococcaceae UCG008 (beta = -0.07; 95% CI, -0.11 to -0.03; P < .001), Ruminococcaceae UCG010 (beta = -0.08; 95% CI, -0.12 to -0.04; P < .001), or Ruminococcaceae NK4A214 group (beta = -0.09; 95% CI, -0.13 to -0.05; P < .001) was associated with lower HOMA-IR. A higher abundance of Clostridiaceae 1 (OR, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.41-0.65; P < .001), Peptostreptococcaceae (OR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.45-0.70; P < .001), C sensu stricto 1 (OR, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.40-0.65; P < .001), Intestinibacter (OR, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.48-0.76; P < .001), or Romboutsia (OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.44-0.70; P < .001) was associated with less type 2 diabetes. These bacteria are all known to produce butyrate. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE In this cross-sectional study, higher microbiome alpha diversity, along with more butyrate-producing gut bacteria, was associated with less type 2 diabetes and with lower insulin resistance among individuals without diabetes. These findings could help provide insight into the etiology, pathogenesis, and treatment of type 2 diabetes.		[Chen, Zhangling; Kavousi, Maryam; Ahmadizar, Fariba; Ikram, M. Arfan; Voortman, Trudy] Erasmus MC, Univ Med Ctr, Dept Epidemiol, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Chen, Zhangling] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Nutr, Boston, MA USA; [Radjabzadeh, Djawad; Uitterlinden, Andre G.; Kraaij, Robert] Erasmus MC, Univ Med Ctr, Dept Internal Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Chen, Lianmin; Kurilshikov, Alexander; Zhernakova, Alexandra; Fu, Jingyuan] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Genet, Groningen, Netherlands; [Chen, Lianmin; Fu, Jingyuan] Univ Groningen, Univ Med Ctr Groningen, Dept Pediat, Groningen, Netherlands; [Chen, Lianmin] Nanjing Med Univ, Dept Cardiol, Affiliated Hosp 1, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Zhangling; Voortman, Trudy] Erasmus MC, Dept Epidemiol, Off 2716,POB 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands								101							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:000679466000007		
J	Ricotta, Carlo; Szeidl, Laszlo; Pavoine, Sandrine								Towards a unifying framework for diversity and dissimilarity coefficients								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				129						107971	10.1016/j.ecolind.2021.107971			OCT 2021	2021	Diversity and dissimilarity within and between species assemblages have now been studied for more than half a century by community ecologists in relation to their connections with ecosystem functioning. However, a generalized framework that puts diversity and dissimilarity coefficients under the same formal umbrella is still lacking. In this paper, we show that generalized means represent an effective tool to develop a unifying formulation for the construction of a large array of parametric diversity and dissimilarity measures. These measures include some of the classical diversity coefficients, such as the Shannon entropy, the Gini-Simpson index or the parametric diversity of Patil and Taillie, together with a large number of dissimilarity coefficients of the Bray-Curtis family and can be further extended to the measurement of functional and phylogenetic differences within and between plots.		[Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Rome, Italy; [Szeidl, Laszlo] Obuda Univ, John von Neumann Fac Informat, H-1034 Budapest, Hungary; [Pavoine, Sandrine] Sorbonne Univ, Ctr Ecol & Sci Conservat CESCO, CNRS, Museum Natl Hist Nat, F-75005 Paris, France; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Rome, Italy								6							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000681696400003		
J	Zheng, Yan-Hua; Xu, Ying; Ma, Hong-Xia; Liang, Cheng-Jie; Yang, Tong								Effect of High-Fat Diet on the Intestinal Flora in Letrozole-Induced Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Rats								EVIDENCE-BASED COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE				2021						6674965	10.1155/2021/6674965			JUN 28 2021	2021	Aim. The aim of this study was to explore whether letrozole and high-fat diets (HFD) can induce obese insulin-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) with intestinal flora dysbiosis in a rat model. We compared the changes in the intestinal flora of letrozole-induced rats fed with HFD or normal chow, to explore the effects of HFD and letrozole independently and synergistically on the intestinal flora. Methods. Five-week-old female Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were divided into four groups: control (C) group fed with regular diet; L1 group administered with letrozole and fed with regular diet; L2 group received letrozole and fed with HFD; and HFD group fed with HFD. At the end of the experiment, ovarian morphology, hormones, metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammatory status of all rats were studied. 16S rDNA high-throughput sequencing was used to profile microbial communities, and various multivariate analysis approaches were used to quantitate microbial composition, abundance, and diversity. Results. Compared to the C group, the increased plasma fasting insulin and glucose, HOMA-IR, triglyceride, testosterone, and malondialdehyde were significantly higher in the L2 group, while high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly lower in the L1 group and L2 group. The indices of Chao1 and the Abundance-based Coverage Estimator (ACE) (alpha-diversity) in the L2 and HFD groups were significantly lower than that in the C group. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity based principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) plots and analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) test showed obvious separations between the L2 group and C group, between the HFD group and C group, and between the L2 and HFD groups. At the phylum level, Firmicutes and ratio of Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes (F/B ratio) were increased in the L2 group; Bacteroidetes was decreased in the L2 and HFD groups. No significant differences in bacterial abundance between the C group and L1 group were observed at the phylum level. Based on linear discriminant analysis (LDA) effect size (LEfSe) analysis, the bacterial genera (the relative abundance > 0.1%, LDA > 3, p<0.05) were selected as candidate bacterial signatures. They showed that the abundance of Vibrio was significantly increased in the L1 group; Bacteroides and Phascolarctobacterium were enriched in the HFD group, and Bacteroides, Phascolarctobacterium, Blautia, Parabacteroides, Akkermansia [Ruminococcus]_torques_group, and Anaerotruncus were enriched in the L2 group. Conclusion. The effect of letrozole on intestinal flora was not significant as HFD. HFD could destroy the balance of intestinal flora and aggravate the intestinal flora dysbiosis in PCOS. Letrozole-induced rats fed with HFD have many characteristics like human PCOS, including some metabolic disorders and intestinal flora dysbiosis. The dysbiosis was characterized by an increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio, an expansion of Firmicutes, a contraction of Bacteroidetes, and the decreased microbial richness. Beta-diversity also showed significant differences in intestinal microflora, compared with control rats.		[Zheng, Yan-Hua] Guangzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Dept Tradit Chinese Med, Guangzhou 510260, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Xu, Ying] Fujian Med Univ, Union Hosp, Dept Nutr, Fuzhou 350001, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Ma, Hong-Xia] Guangzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 1, Dept Tradit Chinese Med, Guangzhou 510120, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Liang, Cheng-Jie] Guangzhou Med Univ, Anim Expt Ctr, Guangzhou 511436, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Yang, Tong] Guangzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Dept Pathol, Guangzhou 510260, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Yan-Hua] Guangzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Dept Tradit Chinese Med, Guangzhou 510260, Guangdong, Peoples R China								8							Integrative & Complementary Medicine	WOS:000674605900005		
J	Williams, Nayo; Vella, Raven; Zhou, Yanjiao; Gao, Haijun; Mass, Kendra; Townsel, Courtney; Campbell, Winston; Luo, Guoyang								Investigating the origin of the fetal gut and placenta microbiome in twins								JOURNAL OF MATERNAL-FETAL & NEONATAL MEDICINE				35	25			7025	7035		10.1080/14767058.2021.1936487			2022	2022	Objective It is widely accepted that the microbiota is critical for human well-being; however, the origin of microbiota in the newborn is not well understood. In this study, we hypothesized that within a maternal-twin dyad (MTD) the meconium microbiome will be similar to the placenta microbiome and the meconium microbiome of within MTD will be similar to one another. Methods Prospectively, meconium (proxy for fetal gut), placenta and maternal buccal, skin, vaginal, stool samples were collected from a cohort of MTDs at time of delivery hospitalization. We performed gene sequencing using the V4 region of 16S rRNA with rigorous negative controls. Alpha and beta diversity indices were computed to characterize the microbial community of MTD samples. A p value of Results From 17 MTD, 87/132 samples were successfully sequenced. The alpha diversity of the microbiome collected from all the body sites were different (p <= .001). The meconium samples when compared to other samples in the MTD microbial community were different (p = .009) and the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was greater than 0.95 for all of the comparisons (beta diversity). The MTD within-twin placenta microbiome samples were also different, confirmed by Bray-Curtis pairwise dissimilarity distance, 0.83. Conclusion The fetal gut microbiome is different from placenta and maternal buccal, skin, vaginal and stool microbiome. We clearly identified a distinct placenta microbiome. Furthermore, placentas in the same MTD have distinct microbiomes, suggesting that fetal gut and placenta origin is complex and remains unclear.		[Williams, Nayo] Las Palmas Del Sol Healthcare, El Paso Maternal Fetal Med, El Paso, TX USA; [Vella, Raven; Zhou, Yanjiao; Campbell, Winston] Univ Connecticut, Sch Med, UConn Hlth, Farmington, CT USA; [Gao, Haijun; Luo, Guoyang] Howard Univ, Dept Obstet & Gynecol, Washington, DC 20059 USA; [Mass, Kendra] Univ Connecticut, Microbial Anal Res Serv, Storrs, CT USA; [Townsel, Courtney] Univ Michigan, Div Maternal Fetal Med, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Williams, Nayo] El Paso Maternal Fetal Med, 10175 Gateway Blvd West Suite 210, El Paso, TX 79925 USA								5							Obstetrics & Gynecology	WOS:000662085500001		
J	Li, Yanping; Wang, Dong D.; Satija, Ambika; Ivey, Kerry L.; Li, Jun; Wilkinson, Jeremy E.; Li, Ruifeng; Baden, Megu; Chan, Andrew T.; Huttenhower, Curtis; Rimm, Eric B.; Hu, Frank B.; Sun, Qi								Plant-Based Diet Index and Metabolic Risk in Men: Exploring the Role of the Gut Microbiome								JOURNAL OF NUTRITION				151	9			2780	2789		10.1093/jn/nxab175			SEP 2021	2021	Background: Healthy plant-based diet index (hPDI) is associated with a lower risk of cardiometabolic conditions, but its association as well as interactions with microbiome have not been elucidated. Objectives: We aimed to investigate the interrelations between hPDI, gut microbiome, and cardiometabolic risk markers. Methods: hPDI was derived from dietary assessments by a validated FFQ and was examined in relation to metagenomic profiles of 911 fecal samples collected from 303 men aged 71 +/- 4 y with an average BMI (in kg/m(2)) of 25.2 +/- 3.6 in the Men's Lifestyle Validation Study. Principal coordinate (PCo) analysis based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was conducted, and interactions between hPDI and PCo were examined by using a metabolic risk score composed of blood lipids, BMI, and glycated hemoglobin. Results: After multivariable adjustment, hPDI was significantly associated with the relative abundance of 7 species and 9 pathways. In particular, higher hPDI was significantly associated with a higher relative abundance of Bacteroides cellulosilyticus and Eubacterium eligens, amino acid biosynthesis pathways (L-isoleucine biosynthesis I and III and L-valine biosynthesis), and the pathway of pyruvate fermentation to isobutanol. A favorable association between hPDI and the metabolic risk score was more pronounced among men with a higher PCo characterized by higher abundance of Bacteroides uniformis and lower abundance of Prevotella copri. At the individual species level, a similar interaction was also observed between hPDI and P copri, as well as with Clostridium clostridioforme or Blautia hydrogenotrophica (all P-interaction < 0.01). Conclusion: A greater adherence to a healthy plant-based diet by older men was associated with a microbial profile characterized by a higher abundance of multiple species, including B. cellulosilyticus and E. eligens, as well as pathways in amino acid metabolism and pyruvate fermentation. In addition, inverse associations between healthy plant-based diet and human metabolic risk may partially depend on microbial compositions.		[Li, Yanping; Wang, Dong D.; Satija, Ambika; Ivey, Kerry L.; Li, Jun; Li, Ruifeng; Baden, Megu; Rimm, Eric B.; Hu, Frank B.; Sun, Qi] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Nutr, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Ivey, Kerry L.] South Australian Hlth & Med Res Inst, Microbiome & Host Hlth Programme, North Terrace, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Ivey, Kerry L.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Nursing & Hlth Sci, Dept Nutr & Dietet, Adelaide, SA, Australia; [Wilkinson, Jeremy E.; Huttenhower, Curtis] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat, Boston, MA USA; [Chan, Andrew T.] Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Clin & Translat Epidemiol Unit, Boston, MA 02114 USA; [Chan, Andrew T.; Rimm, Eric B.; Hu, Frank B.; Sun, Qi] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Huttenhower, Curtis] Broad Inst MIT & Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02142 USA; [Rimm, Eric B.; Hu, Frank B.; Sun, Qi] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Rimm, Eric B.; Hu, Frank B.; Sun, Qi] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Dept Med, Channing Div Network Med, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sun, Qi] Joslin Diabet Ctr, Boston, MA 02215 USA; [Sun, Qi] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Nutr, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sun, Qi] Harvard Med Sch, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sun, Qi] Harvard TH Chan Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Epidemiol, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sun, Qi] Brigham & Womens Hosp, Dept Med, Channing Div Network Med, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Sun, Qi] Joslin Diabet Ctr, Boston, MA 02215 USA								14							Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000731850300031		
J	Summers, Stacie C.; Galloni, Allysa; Webb, Craig B.								Impact of specimen type on findings for bacterial composition within the intestinal tract of dogs and cats with and without chronic enteropathy								AMERICAN JOURNAL OF VETERINARY RESEARCH				82	6			494	501					JUN 2021	2021	OBJECTIVE To compare bacterial diversity and community composition among fecal, rectal swab, and colonic mucosal biopsy specimens from dogs and cats with and without chronic enteropathy (CE). ANIMALS 9 healthy dogs, 8 dogs with CE, 8 healthy cats, and 9 cats with CE. PROCEDURES In a cross-sectional study design, fecal, rectal swab, and colonic mucosal biopsy specimens were obtained by colonoscopy from healthy dogs and dogs and cats with CE. Fecal and rectal swab specimens were collected from healthy cats. Genomic DNA was extracted, the 16S rRNA V4 gene region was amplified, and sequencing was performed by use of primers 515F to 806R on a paired-end platform. RESULTS For healthy dogs and dogs and cats with CE, bacterial diversity based on the Chaol estimate of total species richness was higher for colonic mucosal biopsy specimens than for fecal specimens. Analysis of similarities by use of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index revealed that the bacterial communities captured in rectal swab specimens were similar to those captured in fecal specimens for healthy dogs and dogs with CE and similar to those captured in colonic mucosal biopsy specimens for both dog groups and cats with CE. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE Rectal swab and colonic biopsy specimens were successfully used to characterize the bacteriome of the intestinal tract in dogs and cats by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Although the specimen types evaluated in this study were not interchangeable in results, rectal swab specimens were practical to collect from dogs and cats to study bacterial composition within the intestinal tract and may provide an alternative to colonic mucosal biopsy and fecal specimens.		[Summers, Stacie C.; Galloni, Allysa; Webb, Craig B.] Colorado State Univ, Coll Vet Med & Biomed Sci, Dept Clin Sci, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA; [Summers, Stacie C.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Vet Med, Corvallis, OR 97330 USA; [Summers, Stacie C.] Colorado State Univ, Coll Vet Med & Biomed Sci, Dept Clin Sci, Ft Collins, CO 80523 USA; [Summers, Stacie C.] Oregon State Univ, Coll Vet Med, Corvallis, OR 97330 USA								0							Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000655469500017		
J	Peng, He-Bo; Chan, Ying-Chi; Compton, Tanya J.; Cheng, Xue-Fei; Melville, David S.; Zhang, Shou-Dong; Zhang, Zhengwang; Lei, Guangchun; Ma, Zhijun; Piersma, Theunis								Mollusc aquaculture homogenizes intertidal soft-sediment communities along the 18,400 km long coastline of China								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				27	8			1553	1567		10.1111/ddi.13302			AUG 2021	2021	Aim Molluscs are important grazers, filter and deposit feeders, scavengers and predators, which in turn are food for shorebirds, fish and people. Some species, targeted as human food, have been cultured along the Chinese coast for hundreds of years. To examine whether aquacultural practices have meanwhile affected biodiversity gradients, we measured mollusc community structure along the coast of China in habitats which are intensively used by humans. Location Chinese coast. Methods We sampled 21 intertidal sites spanning 20 latitudinal degrees and 18,400 km of coastline. We assessed alpha diversity to verify whether mollusc communities exhibit the expected biodiversity gradient with latitude and beta diversity gradients with distance. To examine whether human activities such as transportation and culturing could have affected these patterns, we distinguished commercial from non-commercial mollusc species and compared the differences in distribution, density, alpha diversity and beta diversity. Results We found non-commercial species showed the expected biodiversity gradients. Commercial species (a) dominated the intertidal mollusc communities at 19 of the 21 sites and compared with non-commercial species, (b) exhibited wider geographical distributions, (c) showed no significant change in Bray-Curtis index (abundance-based beta diversity) with either geographical or climatic distance, (d) exhibited lower average dissimilarities and (e) did not show a decrease in species richness and Shannon diversity with latitude. Combining all species, trends were the same as for the commercial species. Main conclusions A few cultured species dominated the intertidal mollusc communities in high densities along the Chinese coastline, taking over the ecological roles of the native species but not driving them extinct. In this way, aquacultural practices have exerted a homogenizing influence strong enough to erase basic biodiversity gradients. Since molluscs are food for the growing human population and the shrinking populations of migratory animals, coastal planning and management of both intertidal habitats and the exploitative activities employed need to incorporate these dimensions.		[Peng, He-Bo; Chan, Ying-Chi; Compton, Tanya J.; Zhang, Shou-Dong; Piersma, Theunis] NIOZ Royal Netherlands Inst Sea Res, Dept Coastal Syst, Den Burg, Netherlands; [Peng, He-Bo; Cheng, Xue-Fei; Zhang, Shou-Dong; Ma, Zhijun] Fudan Univ, Minist Educ, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Natl Observat & Res Stn Wetland Ecosyst Yangtze E, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Peng, He-Bo; Cheng, Xue-Fei; Zhang, Shou-Dong; Ma, Zhijun] Fudan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Peng, He-Bo; Chan, Ying-Chi; Zhang, Shou-Dong; Piersma, Theunis] Univ Groningen, Groningen Inst Evolutionary Life Sci GELIFES, Conservat Ecol Grp, Rudi Drent Chair Global Flyway Ecol, Groningen, Netherlands; [Peng, He-Bo; Lei, Guangchun; Piersma, Theunis] Beijing Forestry Univ, CEAAF Ctr East Asian Australasian Flyway Studies, Qinghua East Rd 35, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Melville, David S.] Global Flyway Network, Wakefield, Nelson, New Zealand; [Zhang, Zhengwang] Beijing Normal Univ, Minist Educ, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ma, Zhijun] Fudan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Lei, Guangchun] Beijing Forestry Univ, CEAAF Ctr East Asian Australasian Flyway Studies, Qinghua East Rd 35, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Ma, Zhijun] Fudan Univ, Minist Educ, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Coastal Ecosyst Res Stn Yangtze River Estuary, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China								13							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000652757700001		
J	Liu, Xujun; Tan, Nadan; Zhou, Guoyi; Zhang, Deqiang; Zhang, Qianmei; Liu, Shizhong; Chu, Guowei; Liu, Juxiu								Plant diversity and species turnover co-regulate soil nitrogen and phosphorus availability in Dinghushan forests, southern China								PLANT AND SOIL				464	1-2			257	272		10.1007/s11104-021-04940-x			JUL 2021	2021	Aims The interaction between plants and soil is an important internal driver of ecosystem evolution. Many studies have reported the unidirectional effects of soil nutrients on plant diversity and species turnover. However, there are still many gaps in our knowledge about how plant diversity and species turnover feedback to soil nutrients. Methods In the present study, three forest plots with different species composition and diversity were created through artificial disturbance in the same stand origin forest, and their long-term dynamics were observed. We identified underlying mechanisms of how plant diversity (Shannon-Wiener index) and species turnover (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) affect soil total nitrogen (TN), total phosphorus (TP), available nitrogen (AN), and available phosphorus (AP). Results Plant diversity was associated with soil TN, TP, AN, and AP concentrations (P < 0.01). Species turnover was negatively correlated with the log-response ratio of TP (LRR TP) (P < 0.001), but not correlated with LRR AP. Species turnover had significant positive correlations with LRR TN and LRR AN (P < 0.001). The structural equation model supports hypotheses that plant diversity and species turnover influenced soil N and P availability by affecting forest community growth (total tree basal area, TBA), litter quantity and quality, and soil physical and chemical properties (soil organic carbon, SOC; soil exchangeable base cations). Conclusions Collectively, our results highlighted the co-regulation of plant diversity and species turnover on soil N and P availability by "complementary" and "mass" effects during the long-term dynamics of forest ecosystems.		[Liu, Xujun; Tan, Nadan; Zhou, Guoyi; Zhang, Deqiang; Zhang, Qianmei; Liu, Shizhong; Chu, Guowei; Liu, Juxiu] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Vegetat Restorat & Management Degraded Ec, South China Bot Garden, 723Xingke Rd, Guangzhou 510650, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xujun; Tan, Nadan; Zhang, Deqiang; Zhang, Qianmei; Liu, Shizhong; Chu, Guowei; Liu, Juxiu] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Plant Ecol, Core Bot Garden, 723Xingke Rd, Guangzhou 510650, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xujun] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Liu, Juxiu] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Plant Ecol, Core Bot Garden, 723Xingke Rd, Guangzhou 510650, Peoples R China								22							Agronomy; Plant Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000642063000005		
J	Amerikanou, Charalampia; Kanoni, Stavroula; Kaliora, Andriana C.; Barone, Angela; Bjelan, Mladen; D'Auria, Giuseppe; Gioxari, Aristea; Gosalbes, Maria Jose; Mouchti, Sofia; Stathopoulou, Maria G.; Soriano, Beatriz; Stojanoski, Stefan; Banerjee, Rajarshi; Halabalaki, Maria; Mikropoulou, Eleni V.; Kannt, Aimo; Lamont, John; Llorens, Carlos; Marascio, Fernando; Marascio, Miriam; Roig, Francisco J.; Smyrnioudis, Ilias; Varlamis, Iraklis; Visvikis-Siest, Sophie; Vukic, Milan; Milic, Natasa; Medic-Stojanoska, Milica; Cesarini, Lucia; Campolo, Jonica; Gastaldelli, Amalia; Deloukas, Panos; Trivella, Maria Giovanna; Francino, M. Pilar; Dedoussis, George V.		MAST4HEALTH Consortium						Effect of Mastiha supplementation on NAFLD: The MAST4HEALTH Randomised, Controlled Trial								MOLECULAR NUTRITION & FOOD RESEARCH				65	10					2001178	10.1002/mnfr.202001178			MAY 2021	2021	Scope Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease with poor therapeutic strategies. Mastiha possesses antioxidant/anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering properties. The authors investigate the effectiveness of Mastiha as a nonpharmacological intervention in NAFLD. Methods and Results Ninety-eight patients with NAFLD in three countries (Greece, Italy, Serbia) are randomly allocated to either Mastiha or Placebo for 6 months, as part of a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trial. The authors assess NAFLD severity via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning and LiverMultiScan technique and evaluate the effectiveness of Mastiha through medical, anthropometric, biochemical, metabolomic, and microbiota assessment. Mastiha is not superior to Placebo on changes in iron-corrected T1 (cT1) and Liver Inflammation Fibrosis score (LIF) in entire patient population; however, after BMI stratification (BMI <= 35 kg m(-2) and BMI > 35 kg m(-2)), severely obese patients show an improvement in cT1 and LIF in Mastiha versus Placebo. Mastiha increases dissimilarity of gut microbiota, as shown by the Bray-Curtis index, downregulates Flavonifractor, a known inflammatory taxon and decreases Lysophosphatidylcholines-(LysoPC) 18:1, Lysophosphatidylethanolamines-(LysoPE) 18:1, and cholic acid compared to Placebo. Conclusion Mastiha supplementation improves microbiota dysbiosis and lipid metabolite levels in patients with NAFLD, although it reduces parameters of liver inflammation/fibrosis only in severely obese patients.		[Amerikanou, Charalampia; Kaliora, Andriana C.; Gioxari, Aristea; Dedoussis, George V.] Harokopio Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Educ, Dept Nutr & Dietet, Athens, Greece; [Kanoni, Stavroula; Deloukas, Panos] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, London EC1M 6BQ, England; [Barone, Angela; Mouchti, Sofia; Banerjee, Rajarshi] Perspectum Ltd, Oxford, England; [Bjelan, Mladen; Stojanoski, Stefan; Milic, Natasa; Medic-Stojanoska, Milica] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Med, Novi Sad, Serbia; [D'Auria, Giuseppe] Fundacio Foment Invest Sanitaria & Biomed Comnita, Sequencing & Bioinformat Serv, Comunitat Valenciana FISABIO Salut Publ, Avda Catalunya 21, Valencia 46020, Spain; [D'Auria, Giuseppe; Gosalbes, Maria Jose; Francino, M. Pilar] CIBER Epidmiol & Salud Publ, Av Monforte Lemos 3-5, Madrid 28029, Spain; [Gosalbes, Maria Jose; Francino, M. Pilar] Univ Valencia, Joint Res Unit Genom & Hlth Fundacio Foment Inves, CSIC, Avda Catalunya 21, Valencia 46020, Spain; [Gosalbes, Maria Jose; Francino, M. Pilar] Univ Valencia, Inst Biol Integrat Sistemes, Avda Catalunya 21, Valencia 46020, Spain; [Stathopoulou, Maria G.; Visvikis-Siest, Sophie] Univ Loraine, UMR INSERM U1122, PCV, IGE, Nancy, France; [Soriano, Beatriz; Llorens, Carlos; Roig, Francisco J.] Univ Valencia, Biotechvana, Parc Cient, Valencia, Spain; [Stojanoski, Stefan] Oncol Inst Vojvodina, Ctr Imaging Diagnost, Sremska Kamenica, Serbia; [Halabalaki, Maria; Mikropoulou, Eleni V.] Natl & Kapodistrian Univ Athens, Dept Pharm, Div Pharmacognosy & Nat Prod Chem, Athens, Greece; [Kannt, Aimo] Sanofi Res & Dev, Ind Pk Hoechst, D-65926 Frankfurt, Germany; [Kannt, Aimo] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Clin Pharmacol, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany; [Kannt, Aimo] Fraunhofer Inst Translat Med & Pharmacol ITMP, D-60596 Frankfurt, Germany; [Lamont, John] Randox Labs Ltd, Co Antrim, Northern Irelan, England; [Marascio, Fernando; Marascio, Miriam] Marascio Fernando, Intervideo, I-88100 Catanzaro, CZ, Italy; [Roig, Francisco J.] Univ San Jorge, Fac Ciencias Salud, Zaragoza 50830, Spain; [Smyrnioudis, Ilias] Chios Mast Gum Growers Assoc, Chios, Greece; [Varlamis, Iraklis] Harokopio Univ, Dept Informat & Telemat, Athens, Greece; [Vukic, Milan] Univ East Sarajevo, Fac Technol Zvornik, Dept Food Technol, Zvornik 75400, Bosnia & Herceg; [Medic-Stojanoska, Milica] Clin Ctr Vojvodina, Clin Endocrinol Diabet & Metab Dis, Novi Sad, Serbia; [Cesarini, Lucia] Niguarda Ca Grande Hosp Milan, Div Hepatol & Gastroenterol, Milan, Italy; [Campolo, Jonica; Trivella, Maria Giovanna] CNR, Inst Clin Physiol, Milan, Italy; [Gastaldelli, Amalia; Trivella, Maria Giovanna] CNR, Inst Clin Physiol, Cardiometabol Risk Unit, Pisa, Italy; [Deloukas, Panos] Queen Mary Univ London, Ctr Genom Hlth, Life Sci, London, England; [Dedoussis, George V.] Harokopio Univ, Sch Hlth Sci & Educ, Dept Nutr & Dietet, Athens, Greece; [Deloukas, Panos] Queen Mary Univ London, William Harvey Res Inst, Barts & London Sch Med & Dent, London EC1M 6BQ, England; [Deloukas, Panos] Queen Mary Univ London, Ctr Genom Hlth, Life Sci, London, England								17							Food Science & Technology	WOS:000640658800001		
J	Taybi, Abdelkhaleq Fouzi; Mabrouki, Youness; Bozdogan, Hakan; Millan, Andres								Are aquatic Hemiptera good indicators of environmental river conditions?								AQUATIC ECOLOGY				55	3			791	806		10.1007/s10452-021-09861-6			SEP 2021	2021	Aquatic Hemiptera are barely used as "indicators" because they are considered ubiquitous organisms of great dispersal capacity and a wide range of occupied habitats. Here, we address this topic analyzing the environmental factors determining the distribution of the species found in a northeastern Moroccan basin with a strong altitudinal gradient, as well as their capability of establishing assemblages and the niche breadth for each species. Between 2014 and 2017, we sampled 55 contrasted sites representing the heterogeneity of aquatic ecosystems in the study area, where we collected a total of 27 species. The relationships between the species and environmental variables were evaluated using the STATICO methods, showing a distribution mainly influenced by the changes in flow velocity and conductivity. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index identified four assemblages: (a) a running species group in upper freshwater streams; (b) a middle stream group preferring less flow velocity and moderate mineralization; (c) a third group, near to the mouth, occupying moderate running or lentic brackish waters; and (d) a fourth group linked with hypersaline standing environments. The use of Indicator Species Analysis (IndVal) found few but representative species for each assemblage. The OMI applied showed that the majority of species had a high niche breadth and, consequently, a low specialization. Our results highlighted the overall poor habitat requirement and very ubiquitous character of most species found. Only some of them, mainly the endemism Aphelocheirus pemae, can be considered key for biodiversity conservation purposes because of their low niche breadth and high indicator value.		[Taybi, Abdelkhaleq Fouzi] Univ Mohammed Premier, Fac Pluridisciplinaire Nador, Equipe Rech Biol & Biotechnol Appl, Nador, Morocco; [Mabrouki, Youness] Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah Univ, Fac Sci Dhar El Mehraz, Biotechnol Conservat & Valorisat Nat Resources La, Fes, Morocco; [Bozdogan, Hakan] Univ Kirsehir Ahi Evran, Vocat Sch Tech Sci, Dept Herbal & Anim Prod, TR-40100 Kirsehir, Turkey; [Millan, Andres] Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, Murcia 30100, Spain; [Millan, Andres] Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, Murcia 30100, Spain								4							Ecology; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000638513600001		
J	Nicod, Corentin; Gillet, Francois								Recent changes in mountain hay meadows of high conservation value in eastern France								APPLIED VEGETATION SCIENCE				24	2					e12573	10.1111/avsc.12573			APR 2021	2021	Aim To assess vegetation changes in mountain hay meadows of high conservation value over 15 years. Location Jura Mountains and Vosges Mountains (France). Methods In 2019, we resampled old phytosociological releves (made from 2005 to 2009) in extensive mountain hay meadows. To detect shifts in composition from old to recent releves, we performed a permutational multivariate analysis of variance, and visualized observed patterns using non-metric multidimensional scaling on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix of the vegetation data. We tested for differences in taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic diversity metrics, CSR strategies and ecological indicator values using paired Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney tests. Results Non-metric multidimensional scaling paired with a permutational multivariate analysis of variance showed that, overall, old and recent plant communities were not different in the Vosges Mountains, contrary to the situation in the Jura Mountains. Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney paired tests revealed that, in the Jura Mountains, plant communities underwent a significant decrease in taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic diversity, associated with an increase of ruderal and competitive strategies. Ecological indicator values for nutrient availability and defoliation tolerance both increased, suggesting an intensification of agricultural practices. In the Vosges Mountains, only species richness increased while the inverse Simpson index and Pielou evenness decreased. Conclusions Our results show that plant diversity is not currently threatened in the studied grasslands in the Vosges Mountains. By contrast, in the studied grasslands in the Jura Mountains, plant diversity is declining. The situation in the Vosges shows that agricultural activities and biodiversity conservation can be reconciled. This situation should be further investigated to help resolve conflicts between agriculture and biodiversity conservation in semi-natural grasslands.		[Nicod, Corentin; Gillet, Francois] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, UMR CNRS 6249 Chronoenvironm, 16 Route Gray, F-25030 Besancon, France; [Nicod, Corentin] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, UMR CNRS 6249 Chronoenvironm, 16 Route Gray, F-25030 Besancon, France								3							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000667075000022		
J	Mankowski, Robert T.; Thomas, Ryan M.; Darden, Dijoia B.; Gharaibeh, Raad Z.; Hawkins, Russell B.; Cox, Michael C.; Apple, Camille; Nacionales, Dina C.; Ungaro, Ricardo F.; Dirain, Marvin L.; Moore, Fredrick A.; Leeuwenburgh, Christiaan; Brakenridge, Scott C.; Clanton, Thomas L.; Laitano, Orlando; Moldawer, Lyle L.; Mohr, Alicia M.; Efron, Philip A.								Septic Stability? Gut Microbiota in Young Adult Mice Maintains Overall Stability After Sepsis Compared to Old Adult Mice								SHOCK				55	4			519	525		10.1097/SHK.0000000000001648			APR 2021	2021	Background: Older adults have worse outcomes after sepsis than young adults. Additionally, alterations of the gut microbiota have been demonstrated to contribute to sepsis-related mortality. We sought to determine if there were alterations in the gut microbiota with a novel sepsis model in old adult mice, which enter a state of persistent inflammation, immunosuppression, and catabolism (PICS), as compared with young adult mice, which recover with the sepsis model. Methods: Mixed sex old (similar to 20 mo) and young (similar to 4 mo) C57Bl/6J mice underwent cecal ligation and puncture with daily chronic stress (CLP+DCS) and were compared with naive age-matched controls. Mice were sacrificed at CLP+DCS day 7 and feces collected for bacterial DNA isolation. The V3-V4 hypervariable region was amplified, 16S rRNA gene sequencing performed, and cohorts compared. alpha-Diversity was assessed using Chao1 and Shannon indices using rarefied counts, and beta-diversity was assessed using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. Results: Naive old adult mice had significantly different alpha and beta-diversity compared with naive adult young adult mice. After CLP+DCS, there was a significant shift in the alpha and beta-diversity (FDR = 0.03 for both) of old adult mice (naive vs. CLP+DCS). However, no significant shift was displayed in the microbiota of young mice that underwent CLP+DCS in regards to alpha-diversity (FDR = 0.052) and beta-diversity (FDR = 0.12), demonstrating a greater overall stability of their microbiota at 7 days despite the septic insult. The taxonomic changes in old mice undergoing CLP+DCS were dominated by decreased abundance of the order Clostridiales and genera Oscillospira. Conclusion: Young adult mice maintain an overall microbiome stability 7 days after CLP+DCS after compared with old adult mice. The lack of microbiome stability could contribute to PICS and worse long-term outcomes in older adult sepsis survivors. Further studies are warranted to elucidate mechanistic pathways and potential therapeutics.		[Mankowski, Robert T.; Leeuwenburgh, Christiaan; Efron, Philip A.] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Dept Aging & Geriatr Res, Gainesville, FL USA; [Thomas, Ryan M.; Darden, Dijoia B.; Hawkins, Russell B.; Cox, Michael C.; Apple, Camille; Nacionales, Dina C.; Ungaro, Ricardo F.; Dirain, Marvin L.; Moore, Fredrick A.; Brakenridge, Scott C.; Moldawer, Lyle L.; Mohr, Alicia M.; Efron, Philip A.] Univ Florida, Coll Med, Dept Surg, Gainesville, FL USA; [Thomas, Ryan M.; Efron, Philip A.] Univ Florida, Dept Mol Genet & Microbiol, Coll Med, Gainesville, FL USA; [Thomas, Ryan M.] North Florida South Georgia Vet Hlth Syst, Sect Gen Surg, Gainesville, FL USA; [Gharaibeh, Raad Z.] Univ Florida, Dept Med, Gainesville, FL USA; [Laitano, Orlando] Univ Florida, Dept Appl Physiol & Kinesiol, Coll Hlth & Human Performance, Gainesville, FL USA; [Efron, Philip A.] Univ Florida, Dept Surg, Coll Med, Shands Hosp, Room 6116,1600 SWArcher Rd, Gainesville, FL 32610 USA								11							Critical Care Medicine; Hematology; Surgery; Peripheral Vascular Disease	WOS:000663725100012		
J	Yuan, Haijun; Meng, Fanfan; Yamamoto, Masanobu; Liu, Xingqi; Dong, Hailiang; Shen, Ji; Yin, Huaqun; Wang, Jianjun								Linking historical vegetation to bacterial succession under the contrasting climates of the Tibetan Plateau								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				126						107625	10.1016/j.ecolind.2021.107625			JUL 2021	2021	Understanding the relationship between historical vegetation and bacteria is critical for disentangling spatiotemporal variations in microbial communities. However, the utility of historical vegetation as indicated by the reconstruction proxies like n-alkanes to explain microbial succession has been understudied, especially regarding aquatic microbes living under contrasting climates. Here, we studied bacterial and n-alkane succession in sediment cores from Kusai Lake and Lugu Lake under contrasting climates, that is, the drier and colder climates and the warmer and wetter conditions, respectively, and further explored how bacterial communities are affected by historical vegetation. In both lakes, the Shannon diversity of bacteria and n-alkanes consistently and significantly (P < 0.05) decreased towards deep-depth sediments, and their compositional dissimilarity Bray-Curtis increased with depth changes, with slopes of 0.00048 and 0.00027 in Kusai and Lugu lakes, respectively. Furthermore, there was strong synchrony between bacteria and historical vegetation, which was underpinned by similar ecological processes such as environmental selection (e.g., climatic perturbations). Compared to Lugu Lake, however, both the Shannon diversity and compositions of bacteria or n-alkanes changed faster in Kusai Lake, which was influenced by abiotic factors such as the sediment Na and loss-on-ignition. Except for abiotic variables, we found that bacterial diversity and composition were also affected by n-alkane attributes such as the C27/C31, carbon preference index, Shannon diversity and composition in both lakes. In particular, n-alkane attributes generally exerted stronger effects on bacterial characteristics than abiotic variables. For example, nalkane attributes showed strong direct effects on bacterial community composition, with path coefficients of 0.485 and 0.976 (P < 0.001) in Kusai and Lugu lakes, respectively, while abiotic variables had no direct effect. Thus, our findings provide new evidence that historical vegetation could substantially explain variations in bacterial communities across temporal scales.		[Yuan, Haijun; Yin, Huaqun] Cent South Univ, Sch Minerals Proc & Bioengn, Changsha 410083, Peoples R China; [Yuan, Haijun; Yin, Huaqun] Cent South Univ, Key Lab Biomet, Minist Educ, Changsha 410083, Peoples R China; [Yuan, Haijun; Meng, Fanfan; Wang, Jianjun] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China; [Meng, Fanfan; Wang, Jianjun] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Yamamoto, Masanobu] Hokkaido Univ, Fac Environm Earth Sci, Kita Ku, Kita 10,Nishi 5, Sapporo, Hokkaido 0600810, Japan; [Liu, Xingqi] Capital Normal Univ, Coll Environm Resources & Tourism, Beijing 100048, Peoples R China; [Dong, Hailiang] China Univ Geosci, State Key Lab Biogeol & Environm Geol, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Dong, Hailiang] Miami Univ, Dept Geol & Environm Earth Sci, Oxford, OH 45056 USA; [Shen, Ji] Nanjing Univ, Sch Geog & Ocean Sci, Nanjing 210023, Peoples R China; [Yin, Huaqun] Cent South Univ, Sch Minerals Proc & Bioengn, Changsha 410083, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jianjun] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China								6							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000647802900008		
J	Melo, Adriano Sanches								Heavy-weighting rare species in dissimilarity indices improve recovery of multivariate groups								ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY				46						100925	10.1016/j.ecocom.2021.100925			MAR 2021	2021	Dissimilarity indices differ in the relative weight given to rare species. Heavy-weighting of rare species may be justified in terms of sampling. An index may erroneously estimate high dissimilarity between two identical communities if they are composed of many rare species and the sampling effort is insufficient to observe most of them in both samples. Heavy-weighting of rare species is thought to compensate for this negative bias. I evaluated two quantitative indices that heavy-weight rare species, NNESS (New Normalized Expected Species Shared) and Goodall, and two probability versions of the Sorensen index, one that takes into account shared unseen rare species and the other that does not. They were compared against the widely used Bray-Curtis (or Sorensen quantitative) and the Morisita-Horn. Indices were computed using raw abundance data or coded data that heavy-weight rare species (frequency in sample units, log-transformation and standardization by the maximum abundance within species). Indices were evaluated for their ability to distinguish, using distance-based MANOVA, season-defined (summer, winter) groups of samples of stream macroinvertebrates and groups of samples obtained by simulation. Sorensen corrected for unseen shared species performed poorly in the empirical study and intermediate in the simulations. NNESS was good in the empirical study and intermediate in the simulations. Goodall scored inversely as NNESS, being intermediate in the empirical assessment and very good in the simulations. The Sorensen uncorrected for unseen shared species, Bray-Curtis and the Morisita-Horn presented poor or intermediate results using raw abundance data. Their performance, however, improved consistently using coded data that heavy-weight rare species and made them good or very good. I conclude that heavyweighting rare species improves the ability to detect multivariate groups. Heavy-weighting of rare species may be achieved either by using specific formulae (NNESS, Goodall) or using coded data.		[Melo, Adriano Sanches] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Dept Ecol, Av Bento Goncalves 9500, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Melo, Adriano Sanches] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Dept Ecol, Av Bento Goncalves 9500, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								2							Ecology	WOS:000657379700005		
J	Parlucha, Jason A.; Soriano, Janine Kaysee R.; Yabes, Milbrenne D.; Pampolina, Nelson M.; Tadiosa, Edwin R.								Species and functional diversity of macrofungi from protected areas in mountain forest ecosystems of Southern Luzon, Philippines								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				62	3			359	367		10.1007/s42965-021-00152-7			SEP 2021	2021	Fungi and their functions are among the least studied component of the ecosystem such that not more than 10% were named based on global conservative species estimate. In the Philippines, the species described do not reflect on documentation and conservation efforts amidst threat of forest degradation and climate change. This study investigated the current macrofungal diversity in parts of three important protected mountain forest ecosystems in Southern Tagalog Region in the Philippines: Mount Makiling Forest Reserve (MMFR), Mount Banahaw-San Cristobal Protected Landscape (MBSCPL), and Quezon Protected Landscape (QPL). Macrofungal sporocarps were collected and documented from selected sites and preserved as voucher specimens. Samples were characterized using morphological, anatomical, and chemical properties then validated field identification from mycological herbarium and consulted experts. Sixteen species representing 11 families with Shannon diversity index of 2.79 were observed from MMFR. Collections from MBSCPL were 35 species under 19 families with Shannon diversity index of 3.14. QPL recorded 21 species from 12 families with Shannon diversity index of 3.04. The diversity of macrofungi from protected areas showed unique species composition based on non-metric multidimensional scaling with high dissimilarity based on Bray-Curtis Index, suggesting possible differences in carbon sink on forest floor. Functional diversity of recorded taxa described a balanced proportion of saprophytic and mycorrhizal fungi with few parasitic fungi having economic and cultural values. Variations in macrofungal species and functions could reflect on the status of protected areas in terms of productivity and sustainability, requiring extensive sampling and monitoring to cover macrofungi in biodiversity assessment and conservation programs in this region of the country.		[Parlucha, Jason A.] Cent Mindanao Univ, Coll Forestry & Environm Sci, Bukidnon, Philippines; [Soriano, Janine Kaysee R.; Yabes, Milbrenne D.; Pampolina, Nelson M.] Univ Philippines Banos, Coll Forestry & Nat Resources, Los Banos, Philippines; [Tadiosa, Edwin R.] Bulacan State Univ, Dept Sci, Coll Sci, Bulacan, Philippines; [Parlucha, Jason A.] Cent Mindanao Univ, Coll Forestry & Environm Sci, Bukidnon, Philippines								0							Ecology	WOS:000627680700001		
J	Alferink, Louise J. M.; Radjabzadeh, Djawad; Erler, Nicole S.; Vojinovic, Dina; Medina-Gomez, Carolina; Uitterlinden, Andre G.; de Knegt, Robert J.; Amin, Najaf; Ikram, M. Arfan; Janssen, Harry L. A.; Kiefte-de Jong, Jessica C.; Metselaar, Herold J.; van Duijn, Cornelia M.; Kraaij, Robert; Darwish Murad, Sarwa								Microbiomics, Metabolomics, Predicted Metagenomics, and Hepatic Steatosis in a Population-Based Study of 1,355 Adults								HEPATOLOGY				73	3			968	982		10.1002/hep.31417			MAR 2021	2021	Background and Aims Previous small studies have appraised the gut microbiome (GM) in steatosis, but large-scale studies are lacking. We studied the association of the GM diversity and composition, plasma metabolites, predicted functional metagenomics, and steatosis. Approach and Results This is a cross-sectional analysis of the prospective population-based Rotterdam Study. We used 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing and determined taxonomy using the SILVA reference database. Alpha diversity and beta diversity were calculated using the Shannon diversity index and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities. Differences were tested across steatosis using permutational multivariate analysis of variance. Hepatic steatosis was diagnosed by ultrasonography. We subsequently selected genera using regularized regression. The functional metagenome was predicted based on the GM using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways. Serum metabolomics were assessed using high-throughput proton nuclear magnetic resonance. All analyses were adjusted for age, sex, body mass index, alcohol, diet, and proton-pump inhibitors. We included 1,355 participants, of whom 472 had steatosis. Alpha diversity was lower in steatosis (P = 1.1 center dot 10(-9)), and beta diversity varied across steatosis strata (P = 0.001). Lasso selected 37 genera of which three remained significantly associated after adjustment (Coprococcus3: beta = -65; Ruminococcus Gauvreauiigroup: beta = 62; and Ruminococcus Gnavusgroup: beta = 45, Q-value = 0.037). Predicted metagenome analyses revealed that pathways of secondary bile-acid synthesis and biotin metabolism were present, and D-alanine metabolism was absent in steatosis. Metabolic profiles showed positive associations for aromatic and branched chain amino acids and glycoprotein acetyls with steatosis and R. Gnavusgroup, whereas these metabolites were inversely associated with alpha diversity and Coprococcus3. Conclusions We confirmed, on a large-scale, the lower microbial diversity and association of Coprococcus and Ruminococcus Gnavus with steatosis. We additionally showed that steatosis and alpha diversity share opposite metabolic profiles.		[Alferink, Louise J. M.; de Knegt, Robert J.; Metselaar, Herold J.; Darwish Murad, Sarwa] Erasmus MC, Dept Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Off Na-605,Postbus 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Radjabzadeh, Djawad; Medina-Gomez, Carolina; Uitterlinden, Andre G.; Kraaij, Robert] Erasmus MC, Dept Internal Med, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Erler, Nicole S.] Erasmus MC, Dept Biostat, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Vojinovic, Dina; Uitterlinden, Andre G.; Amin, Najaf; Ikram, M. Arfan; Kiefte-de Jong, Jessica C.; van Duijn, Cornelia M.] Erasmus MC, Dept Epidemiol, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Janssen, Harry L. A.] Univ Hlth Network, Toronto Gen Hosp, Toronto Ctr Liver Dis, Toronto, ON, Canada; [Kiefte-de Jong, Jessica C.] Leiden Univ, Dept Publ Hlth & Primary Care, LUMC Campus Hague, Med Ctr, Leiden, Netherlands; [van Duijn, Cornelia M.] Univ Oxford, Nuffield Dept Populat Hlth, Oxford, England; [Darwish Murad, Sarwa] Erasmus MC, Dept Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Off Na-605,Postbus 2040, NL-3000 CA Rotterdam, Netherlands								36							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000629537100009		
J	Pascottini, O. Bogado; Spricigo, J. F. W.; Van Schyndel, S. J.; Mion, B.; Rousseau, J.; Weese, J. S.; LeBlanc, S. J.								Effects of parity, blood progesterone, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory treatment on the dynamics of the uterine microbiota of healthy postpartum dairy cows								PLOS ONE				16	2					e0233943	10.1371/journal.pone.0233943			FEB 19 2021	2021	This study evaluated the effects of treatment with meloxicam (a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug), parity, and blood progesterone concentration on the dynamics of the uterine microbiota of 16 clinically healthy postpartum dairy cows. Seven primiparous and 9 multiparous postpartum Holstein cows either received meloxicam (0.5 mg/kg SC, n = 7 cows) once daily for 4 days (10 to 13 days in milk (DIM)) or were untreated (n = 9 cows). Endometrial cytology samples were collected by cytobrush at 10, 21, and 35 DIM, from which the microbiota analysis was conducted using 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. A radioimmunoassay was used to measure progesterone concentration in blood serum samples at 35 DIM and cows were classified as > 1 ng/mL (n = 10) or <= 1 ng/mL (n = 6). Alpha diversity for bacterial genera (Chao1, Shannon-Weiner, and Camargo's evenness indices) were not affected by DIM, meloxicam treatment, parity, or progesterone category. For beta diversity (genera level), principal coordinate analysis (Bray-Curtis) showed differences in microbiota between parity groups. At the phylum level, the relative abundance of Actinobacteria was greater in primiparous than multiparous cows. At the genus level, there was lesser relative abundance of Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, Neisseriaceae, Paracoccus, Staphylococcus, and Streptococcus and greater relative abundance of Bacillus and Fusobacterium in primiparous than multiparous cows. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity did not differ by DIM at sampling, meloxicam treatment, or progesterone category at 35 DIM. In conclusion, uterine bacterial composition was not different at 10, 21, or 35 DIM, and meloxicam treatment or progesterone category did not affect the uterine microbiota in clinically healthy postpartum dairy cows. Primiparous cows presented a different composition of uterine bacteria than multiparous cows. The differences in microbiota associated with parity might be attributable to changes that occur consequent to the first calving, but this hypothesis should be investigated further.		[Pascottini, O. Bogado; Van Schyndel, S. J.; LeBlanc, S. J.] Univ Guelph, Ontario Vet Coll, Populat Med, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Spricigo, J. F. W.; Mion, B.] Univ Guelph, Dept Anim Biosci, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Rousseau, J.; Weese, J. S.] Univ Guelph, Ontario Vet Coll, Dept Pathobiol, Guelph, ON, Canada; [Pascottini, O. Bogado] Univ Guelph, Ontario Vet Coll, Populat Med, Guelph, ON, Canada								17							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000620629200109		
J	Baker, Stokes S.; Alhassan, Mohamed S.; Asenov, Kristian Z.; Choi, Joyce J.; Craig, Griffin E.; Dastidar, Zayn A.; Karim, Saleh J.; Sheardy, Erin E.; Sloulin, Salameh Z.; Aggarwal, Nitish; Al-Habib, Zahraa M.; Camaj, Valentina; Cleminte, Dennis D.; Hamady, Mira H.; Jaafar, Mike; Jones, Marcel L.; Khan, Zayan M.; Khoshaba, Evileen S.; Khoshaba, Rita; Ko, Sarah S.; Mashrah, Abdulmalik T.; Patel, Pujan A.; Rajab, Rabeeh; Tandon, Sahil								Students in a Course-Based Undergraduate Research Experience Course Discovered Dramatic Changes in the Bacterial Community Composition Between Summer and Winter Lake Samples								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				12						579325	10.3389/fmicb.2021.579325			FEB 18 2021	2021	Course-based undergraduate research experience (CURE) courses incorporate high-impact pedagogies that have been shown to increase undergraduate retention among underrepresented minorities and women. As part of the Building Infrastructure Leading to Diversity program at the University of Detroit Mercy, a CURE metagenomics course was established in the winter of 2019. Students investigated the bacterial community composition in a eutrophic cove in Lake Saint Clair (Harrison Township, MI, United States) from water samples taken in the summer and winter. The students created 16S rRNA libraries that were sequenced using next-generation sequencing technology. They used a public web-based supercomputing resource to process their raw sequencing data and web-based tools to perform advanced statistical analysis. The students discovered that the most common operational taxonomic unit, representing 31% of the prokaryotic sequences in both summer and winter samples, corresponded to an organism that belongs to a previously unidentified phylum. This result showed the students the power of metagenomics because the approach was able to detect unclassified organisms. Principal Coordinates Analysis of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index data showed that the winter community was distinct from the summer community [Analysis of Similarities (ANOSIM) r = 0.59829, n = 18, and p < 0.001]. Dendrograms based on hierarchically clustered Pearson correlation coefficients of phyla were divided into a winter clade and a summer clade. The conclusion is that the winter bacterial population was fundamentally different from the summer population, even though the samples were taken from the same locations in a protected cove. Because of the small class sizes, qualitative as well as statistical methods were used to evaluate the course's impact on student attitudes. Results from the Laboratory Course Assessment Survey showed that most of the respondents felt they were contributing to scientific knowledge and the course fostered student collaboration. The majority of respondents agreed or strongly agreed that the course incorporated iteration aspects of scientific investigations, such as repeating procedures to fix problems. In summary, the metagenomics CURE course was able to add to scientific knowledge and allowed students to participate in authentic research.		[Baker, Stokes S.; Alhassan, Mohamed S.; Asenov, Kristian Z.; Choi, Joyce J.; Craig, Griffin E.; Dastidar, Zayn A.; Karim, Saleh J.; Sheardy, Erin E.; Sloulin, Salameh Z.; Aggarwal, Nitish; Al-Habib, Zahraa M.; Camaj, Valentina; Cleminte, Dennis D.; Hamady, Mira H.; Jaafar, Mike; Jones, Marcel L.; Khan, Zayan M.; Khoshaba, Evileen S.; Khoshaba, Rita; Ko, Sarah S.; Mashrah, Abdulmalik T.; Patel, Pujan A.; Rajab, Rabeeh; Tandon, Sahil] Univ Detroit Mercy, Biol Dept, Detroit, MI 48221 USA; [Choi, Joyce J.] Univ Michigan, Sch Environm & Sustainabil, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Dastidar, Zayn A.] Wayne State Univ, Mike Ilitch Sch Business, Detroit, MI USA; [Baker, Stokes S.] Univ Detroit Mercy, Biol Dept, Detroit, MI 48221 USA								5							Microbiology	WOS:000624926400001		
J	Ogai, Kazuhiro; Shibata, Kana; Takahashi, Natsuki; Ogura, Kohei; Okamoto, Shigefumi; Sugama, Junko								Amplicon-based skin microbiome profiles collected by tape stripping with different adhesive film dressings: a comparative study								BMC MICROBIOLOGY				21	1					54	10.1186/s12866-021-02122-4			FEB 18 2021	2021	Background Medical film dressings have been used to obtain skin microbiota for skin microbiome studies, although their adhesive force may be so strong that the skin could be injured when applied to those who have fragile skin, such as older people. Several products with less adhesive force are available, although their applicability for skin microbiome studies remains unknown. This study aimed to test whether the dressings with less adhesive force could be used for amplicon-based skin microbiome studies. A set of three different film dressings, with acrylic, urethane, or silicone adhesive, was applied to the back skin of nine healthy young participants. The copy number of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene, microbial compositions, and alpha and beta diversity indices were analyzed by amplicon analysis of the 16S rRNA gene using next-generation sequencing and were compared among the three film dressings. Results The dressing with acrylic adhesive yielded the highest copy number of 16S rRNA genes, followed by that with urethane adhesive. The silicone-adhesive dressing yielded a significantly lower copy number of the 16S rRNA gene. The microbial composition of skin microbiota was similar among the three film dressings, although significant differences in the relative abundance of Pseudomonas species and alpha diversity indices were found in the silicone-adhesive dressing. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was significantly higher between the acrylic- and silicone-adhesive dressings than between the acrylic- and urethane-adhesive dressings. No adverse effects related to tape stripping were observed for any of the film dressings. Conclusion We recommend dressings with acrylic or urethane adhesive for amplicon-based skin microbiome studies. An acrylic adhesive has an advantage in the yield of skin microbiota, and a urethane adhesive should be chosen when applied to fragile skin. The adhesive force of the dressing with silicone adhesive was too weak to be used for collecting skin microbiota.		[Ogai, Kazuhiro] Kanazawa Univ, AI Hosp, Macro Signal Dynam Res & Dev Ctr, Inst Med Pharmaceut & Hlth Sci, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan; [Ogai, Kazuhiro; Sugama, Junko] Kanazawa Univ, Dept Nursing, Fac Hlth Sci, Inst Med Pharmaceut & Hlth Sci, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan; [Shibata, Kana; Takahashi, Natsuki; Okamoto, Shigefumi] Kanazawa Univ, Dept Clin Lab Sci, Fac Hlth Sci, Inst Med Pharmaceut & Hlth Sci, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan; [Ogura, Kohei; Sugama, Junko] Kanazawa Univ, Inst Frontier Sci Initiat, Adv Hlth Care Sci Res Unit, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan; [Ogai, Kazuhiro] Kanazawa Univ, AI Hosp, Macro Signal Dynam Res & Dev Ctr, Inst Med Pharmaceut & Hlth Sci, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan; [Ogai, Kazuhiro; Sugama, Junko] Kanazawa Univ, Dept Nursing, Fac Hlth Sci, Inst Med Pharmaceut & Hlth Sci, 5-11-80 Kodatsuno, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 9200942, Japan								5							Microbiology	WOS:000619402500001		
J	Jiang, Hongmao; Chen, Youchao; Hu, Yang; Wang, Ziwei; Lu, Xuyang								Soil Bacterial Communities and Diversity in Alpine Grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau Based on 16S rRNA Gene Sequencing								FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				9						630722	10.3389/fevo.2021.630722			FEB 16 2021	2021	The Tibetan Plateau, widely known as the world's "Third Pole," has gained extensive attention due to its susceptibility to climate change. Alpine grasslands are the dominant ecosystem on the Tibetan Plateau, albeit little is known about the microbial community and diversity among different alpine grassland types. Here, soil bacterial composition and diversity in the upper soils of five alpine grassland ecosystems, alpine meadow (AM), alpine steppe (AS), alpine meadow steppe (AMS), alpine desert (AD), and alpine desert steppe (ADS), were investigated based on the 16S rRNA gene sequencing technology. Actinobacteria (46.12%) and Proteobacteria (29.67%) were the two dominant soil bacteria at the phylum level in alpine grasslands. There were significant differences in the relative abundance at the genus level among the five different grassland types, especially for the Rubrobacter, Solirubrobacter, Pseudonocardia, Gaiella, Haliangium, and Geodermatophilus. Six alpha diversity indices were calculated based on the operational taxonomic units (OTUs), including Good's coverage index, phylogenetic diversity (PD) whole tree index, Chao1 index, observed species index, Shannon index, and Simpson index. The Good's coverage index value was around 0.97 for all the grassland types in the study area, meaning the soil bacteria samplings sequenced sufficiently. No statistically significant difference was shown in other diversity indices' value, indicating the similar richness and evenness of soil bacteria in these alpine grasslands. The beta diversity, represented by Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and the non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), showed that OTUs were clustered within alpine grasslands, indicating a clear separation of soil bacterial communities. In addition, soil organic matter (SOM), total nitrogen (TN), total phosphorus (TP), pH, and soil water content (SWC) were closely related to the variations in soil bacterial compositions. These results indicated that soil bacterial taxonomic compositions were similar, while soil bacterial community structures were different among the five alpine grassland types. The environmental conditions, including SOM, TN, TP, pH, and SWC, might influence the soil bacterial communities on the Tibetan Plateau.		[Jiang, Hongmao; Wang, Ziwei; Lu, Xuyang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Mt Hazards & Environm, Key Lab Mt Surface Proc & Ecol Regulat, Chengdu, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Hongmao; Hu, Yang; Wang, Ziwei] Chinese Acad Sci, Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Youchao] Chinese Acad Sci, Wuhan Bot Garden, Key Lab Aquat Bot & Watershed Ecol, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Lu, Xuyang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Mt Hazards & Environm, Key Lab Mt Surface Proc & Ecol Regulat, Chengdu, Peoples R China								14							Ecology	WOS:000624074500001		
J	Kumar, Mukesh; Kumar, Aundy; Sahu, Kuleshwar Prasad; Patel, Asharani; Reddy, Bhaskar; Sheoran, Neelam; Krishnappa, Charishma; Rajashekara, Hosahatti; Bhagat, Someshwar; Rathour, Rajeev								Deciphering core-microbiome of rice leaf endosphere: Revelation by metagenomic and microbiological analysis of aromatic and non-aromatic genotypes grown in three geographical zones								MICROBIOLOGICAL RESEARCH				246						126704	10.1016/j.micres.2021.126704			MAY 2021	2021	We have deciphered the leaf endophytic-microbiome of aromatic (cv. Pusa Basmati-1) and non-aromatic (cv. BPT-5204) rice-genotypes grown in the mountain and plateau-zones of India by both metagenomic NGS (mNGS) and conventional microbiological methods. Microbiome analysis by sequencing V3-V4 region of ribosomal gene revealed marginally more bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTU) in the mountain zone at Palampur and Almora than plateau zone at Hazaribagh. Interestingly, the rice leaf endophytic microbiomes in mountain zone were found clustered separately from that of plateau-zone. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices indicated in-fluence of geographical location as compared to genotype per se for shaping rice endophytic microbiome composition. Bacterial phyla, Proteobacteria followed by Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Actinobacteria were found abundant in all three locations. The core-microbiome analysis devulged association of Acidovorax; Aci-netobacter; Allorhizobium-Neorhizobium-Pararhizobium-Rhizobium; Aureimonas; Bradyrhizobium; Burkholderia-Caballeronia-Paraburkholderia; Enterobacter; Pantoea; Pseudomonas; Sphingomonas; and Stenotrophomonas with the leaf endosphere. The phyllosphere and spermosphere microbiota appears to have contributed to endophytic microbiota of rice leaf. SparCC network analysis of the endophytic-microbiome showed complex cooperative and competitive intra-microbial interactions among the microbial communities. Microbiological validation of mNGS data further confirmed the presence of core and transient genera such as Acidovorax, Alcaligenes, Bacillus, Chryseobacterium, Comamonas, Curtobacterium, Delftia, Microbacterium, Ochrobactrum, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, Rhizobium, Rhodococcus, Sphingobacterium, Staphylococcus, Stenotrophomonas, and Xanthomonas in the rice ge-notypes. We isolated, characterized and identified core-endophytic microbial communities of rice leaf for developing microbiome assisted crop management by microbiome reengineering in future.		[Kumar, Mukesh; Kumar, Aundy; Sahu, Kuleshwar Prasad; Patel, Asharani; Reddy, Bhaskar; Sheoran, Neelam; Krishnappa, Charishma] ICAR Indian Agr Res Inst, New Delhi, India; [Rajashekara, Hosahatti] ICAR Vivekananda Inst Hill Agr, Almora, Uttarakhand, India; [Bhagat, Someshwar] ICAR Cent Rainfed Upland Rice Res Stn NRRI, Hazaribagh, Jharkhand, India; [Rathour, Rajeev] CSK Himachal Pradesh Agr Univ, Palampur, Himachal Prades, India; [Kumar, Aundy] ICAR Indian Agr Res Inst, New Delhi, India								21							Microbiology	WOS:000632543800004		
J	Anand, Theivasigamani; Srinivasan, Arasan; Padmavathy, Pandurengan; Jawahar, Paulraj; Sampathkumar, J. Stephen								Structure, proximate composition, nutrient dynamics and growth characteristics of <i>Penaeus vannamei</i> in indoor biofloc systems with three different salinities and carbon sources								ISRAELI JOURNAL OF AQUACULTURE-BAMIDGEH				73						1526990	10.46989/001c.29495			2021	2021	In the biofloc systems the continuous application of carbon sources led to the assimilation of nitrogenous nutrients and formation of heterotrophic bacterial biomass. The present experiment was conducted in 0.22m(3) capacity tanks in the triplicate to find out the structure, proximate composition, nutrient dynamics and growth characteristics of Penaeus vannamei in indoor biofloc systems with three different salinities (35, 20 and 5ppt) and carbon sources (molasses, sugar and rice flour) with an estimated C:N ratio of 15:1. pre salinity acclimatized P. vannamei, specific pathogen free seeds (0.2 +/- 0.04g) were stocked @100 numbers per m(3) and fed 4 times a day based on the % of body weight (from 22% to 2.5%) and reared for 10 weeks. The results revealed that the carbon application at different salinities significantly influenced the biofloc structure (Scanning Electron Microscopic images of biofloc 4000x) showed round and rod-shaped structures. Proximate composition: crude protein (p<0.001), ether extract (p<0.001) and crude fibre (p<0.05) showed significant difference between treatments. Similarly, elemental carbon composition (p<0.01), nitrogenous waste assimilation of TAN (p<0.01), nitrite (p<0.05), and nitrate (p<0.05) showed significant differences in the treatments vs. the control group. The variables also influenced the microbiota abundance {the metagenomics analysis of biofloc showed Bray-Curtis overall average dissimilarity index of 81%, and it varied from 49% to 100% between treatments & controls} and growth characteristics {average body weight (p<0.001) and survival rate (p<0.01) between treatments and controls} of P. vannamei indoor biofloc systems. Hence, the application of carbon sources at different salinities influenced the biofloc structure, proximate, elemental carbon composition, biofloc microbiota abundance, enhanced the nitrogenous waste assimilation and growth performance of P. vannamei in indoor biofloc systems.		[Anand, Theivasigamani] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Coll Fisheries Engn, Dept Fisheries Sci, Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu, India; [Srinivasan, Arasan; Jawahar, Paulraj; Sampathkumar, J. Stephen] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu, India; [Padmavathy, Pandurengan] Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu, India; [Anand, Theivasigamani] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Coll Fisheries Engn, Dept Fisheries Sci, Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu, India								1							Fisheries	WOS:000803737100007		
J	Hao, Minhui; Gadow, Klaus; Alavi, Seyed Jalil; Alvarez-Gonzalez, Juan Gabriel; Rommel Baluarte-Vasquez, Juan; Corral-Rivas, Javier; Hui, Gangying; Korol, Mykola; Kumar, Rajesh; Liang, Jingjing; Meyer, Peter; Remadevi, Othumbam Kat; Kakkar, Ritu; Liu, Wenzhen; Zhao, Xiuhai; Zhang, Chunyu								A classification of woody communities based on biological dissimilarity								APPLIED VEGETATION SCIENCE				24	1					e12565	10.1111/avsc.12565			JAN 2021	2021	Aims Traditional quantitative approaches to forest classification are based on differences in species abundance or incidence among communities. In these approaches, all species are regarded as biologically equidistant regardless of the biological heterogeneity. The objective of the study is to evaluate the potential of the "Discriminating Avalanche" approach, which integrates species abundance and biological heterogeneity, as a new basis for forest classification. Location China, India, Iran, Ukraine, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Peru, and South Africa. Method We illustrate our approach using a set of 35 large tree-mapped forest plots from various regions of the world. Our dissimilarity matrices, which integrate species abundance with biological heterogeneity, are compared with the standard Bray-Curtis and Whittaker dissimilarity indices, and provide the quantitative basis for a hierarchical cluster analysis. Results Four distinct groups of forests were identified using the proposed forest dissimilarity matrix. Afro-montane forests from South Africa constitute a first group. A second group includes temperate deciduous broad-leaved forests dominated by oak (Quercus) and beech (Fagus) from Europe and China. Conifer-dominated forests constitute a third group. The remaining forests constitute the fourth group. Conclusion Biological heterogeneity provides a practical basis for vegetation classification. The results of this study, based on a variety of temperate and tropical forests, suggest that a measure of biological dissimilarity based on evolutionary and morphological differences among species is more effective than the traditional species abundance-based approaches to classify an arbitrary set of plant communities. This approach promises greater refinement and consistency in ecological classification. In particular, it has advantage in classifying forests along large geographic scales in situations of high beta diversity and species turnover.		[Hao, Minhui; Zhao, Xiuhai; Zhang, Chunyu] Beijing Forestry Univ, Res Ctr Forest Management Engn, State Forestry & Grassland Adm, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Gadow, Klaus] Georg August Univ, Fac Forestry & Forest Ecol, Gottingen, Germany; [Gadow, Klaus] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac AgriSci, Dept Forestry & Wood Sci, Matieland, South Africa; [Alavi, Seyed Jalil] Tarbiat Modares Univ, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Forestry, Nour, Iran; [Alvarez-Gonzalez, Juan Gabriel] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Lugo Campus, Lugo, Spain; [Rommel Baluarte-Vasquez, Juan] SERFOR, Natl Forest Serv, Lima, Peru; [Corral-Rivas, Javier] Univ Juarez Estado Durango, Inst Silviculture & Wood Ind, Durango, Mexico; [Hui, Gangying] Chinese Acad Forestry, Res Inst Forestry, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Korol, Mykola] Ukrainian Natl Forestry Univ, Fac Forestry, Lvov, Ukraine; [Kumar, Rajesh] Forest Survey India, Dehra Dun, Uttarakhand, India; [Liang, Jingjing] Purdue Univ, Dept Forestry & Nat Resources, W Lafayette, IN 47907 USA; [Meyer, Peter] Northwest German Forest Res Inst, Dept Forest Nat Conservat, Hannover Munden, Germany; [Remadevi, Othumbam Kat; Kakkar, Ritu] Environm Management & Policy Res Inst EMPRI, Bangalore, Karnataka, India; [Liu, Wenzhen] Xiaolongshan Forest Expt Bur Gansu Prov, Tianshui, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Chunyu] Beijing Forestry Univ, Res Ctr Forest Management Engn, State Forestry & Grassland Adm, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China								3							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000636291500012		
J	Tobar, Claudio N.; Meier, Diego; Rau, Jaime R.; Rios-Henriquez, Catalina; Paves, Hector; Santibanez, Alexis								Seasonal variation of birds in Trumao wetland, south-central Chile								IHERINGIA SERIE ZOOLOGIA				111						e2021002	10.1590/1678-4766e2021002			2021	2021	This study describes the assemblage and habitat use of birds in the Trumao wetland and its seasonal variation according to the hydrological regime during spring 2017 and summer 2018 (not flooded) and winters 2017 and 2018 (flooded). Overall, 29 species of birds were recorded with a total abundance of 2,341 individuals. The total number of accumulated species observed for the flooded and non-flooded period corresponded to 16 and 22 species, respectively, with the Brown hooded Gull [Chroicocephalus maculipennis (Lichtenstein, 1823)] being the dominant species. The qualitative Sorensen similarity index between the flooding and non-flooding periods of the wetland was 73.2%, while the quantitative Bray-Curtis similarity was 32.65%. When comparing the flooded winter period (4 m depth) and the non-flooded summer period (1 m depth), the diversity presented statistically significant differences, but not the abundance. The SIMPER analysis showed that between the flooded winter period and the non-flooded summer period, the species that showed a greater percentage of dissimilarity in their abundance between these seasons were the Brown hooded Gull and the Slender-billed Parakeet [Enicognathus leptorhynchus (King,1831)]. The use of habitat was highly variable, both seasonally and spatially. Our results indicate that birds occupy wetlands according to seasonal fluctuations and according to the habitat that is available; however, abundance is not affected by hydrological changes. It is essential to continue carrying out more research in the wetland to determine the nesting, feeding and reproduction of the birds in the different habitats used to generate its protection and conservation measures in the Trumao wetland.		[Tobar, Claudio N.; Meier, Diego; Paves, Hector; Santibanez, Alexis] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Basicas, Osorno 753, Chile; [Rau, Jaime R.] Univ Lagos, Lab Ecol, Dept Ciencias Biol & Biodiversidad, Casilla 933,Campus Osorno, Osorno, Chile; [Rau, Jaime R.] Univ Lagos, Programa IBAM, Casilla 933,Campus Osorno, Osorno, Chile; [Rios-Henriquez, Catalina] Univ Lagos, Dept Acuicultura & Recursos Agroalimentarios, Lab Limnol, Campus Osorno,Casilla 933, Osorno, Chile; [Paves, Hector] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Invest & Innovac Cambio Climat CiiCC, Santiago, Chile; [Tobar, Claudio N.] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Basicas, Osorno 753, Chile								1							Zoology	WOS:000630265100001		
J	St. James, Colin; Mallik, Azim U.								Functional Ecology of Forest, Heath, and Shrub Savannah Alternate States in Eastern Canada								FORESTS				12	1					93	10.3390/f12010093			JAN 2021	2021	In eastern Canada, alternation of wildfire regime due to fire suppression creates alternate vegetation states converting black spruce forest to heath and shrub savannah (SS). We compared the taxonomic diversity (TD) and functional diversity (FD) of post-fire forest, heath, and SS alternate states to determine if community FD can explain their persistence. We hypothesized that (i) species diversity (TD and FD) would be the highest in forest followed by SS and heath due to decreased interspecific competition and niche differentiation, (ii) differences between TD and FD indices would be greater in communities with high TD in forest due to high trait differentiation and richness, and (iii) changes in community trait values would indicate niche limitations and resource availability. We conducted this study in Terra Nova National Park, Newfoundland, Canada. We calculated functional dispersion (alpha FD), functional pairwise dissimilarity (beta FD), Shannon's diversity (alpha TD), and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (beta TD) from species cover. We used five functional traits (specific root length, specific leaf area, leaf dry matter content, height, and seed mass) related to nutrient acquisition, productivity, and growth. We found lower beta diversity in forest than heath and SS; forest also had higher species diversity and greater breadth in niche space utilization. SS was functionally similar to heath but lower than forest in functional dispersion and functional divergence. It had the highest functional richness and evenness. There was no difference in functional evenness between forest and heath. Functional beta diversity was the highest in forest, and did not differ between heath and SS. Resource acquisition and availability was the greatest in forest and the lowest in heath. We suspect that this might be due to forest having the highest functional trait turnover and niche utilization. We conclude that alternate vegetation states originating from alterations to the natural fire regime negatively impact ecosystem function.		[St. James, Colin; Mallik, Azim U.] Lakehead Univ, Dept Biol, Thunder Bay, ON P7B 5E1, Canada; [Mallik, Azim U.] Lakehead Univ, Dept Biol, Thunder Bay, ON P7B 5E1, Canada								2							Forestry	WOS:000610222400001		
J	Brunialti, Giorgio; Giordani, Paolo; Ravera, Sonia; Frati, Luisa								The Reproductive Strategy as an Important Trait for the Distribution of Lower-Trunk Epiphytic Lichens in Old-Growth vs. Non-Old Growth Forests								FORESTS				12	1					27	10.3390/f12010027			JAN 2021	2021	(1) Research Highlights: The work studied the beta diversity patterns of epiphytic lichens as a function of their reproductive strategies in old-growth and non-old growth forests from the Mediterranean area. (2) Background and Objectives: The reproductive strategies of lichens can drive the dispersal and distribution of species assemblages in forest ecosystems. To further investigate this issue, we analyzed data on epiphytic lichen diversity collected from old-growth and non-old growth forest sites (36 plots) located in Cilento National Park (South Italy). Our working hypothesis was that the dispersal abilities due to the different reproductive strategies drove species beta diversity depending on forest age and continuity. We expected a high turnover for sexually reproducing species and high nestedness for vegetative ones. We also considered the relationship between forest continuity and beta diversity in terms of species rarity. (3) Materials and Methods: we used the Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity to partition lichen diversity into two components of beta diversity for different subsets (type of forest, reproductive strategy, and species rarity). (4) Results: The two forest types shared most of the common species and did not show significant differences in alpha and gamma diversity. The turnover of specific abundance was the main component of beta diversity, and was significantly greater for sexually reproducing species as compared to vegetative ones. These latter species had also the least turnover and greater nestedness in old-growth forests. Rare species showed higher turnover than common ones. (5) Conclusions: Our results suggest that sexually reproducing lichen species always have high turnover, while vegetative species tend to form nested assemblages, especially in old-growth forests. The rarity level contributes to the species turnover in lichen communities. Contrary to what one might expect, the differences between old-growth and non-old growth forests are not strong.		[Brunialti, Giorgio; Frati, Luisa] Univ Siena, TerraData Environmetr, Spin Off Co, I-58025 Monterotondo Marittimo, Italy; [Giordani, Paolo] Univ Genoa, DIFAR, I-16148 Genoa, Italy; [Ravera, Sonia] Univ Palermo, STEBICEF, I-90128 Palermo, Italy; [Brunialti, Giorgio] Univ Siena, TerraData Environmetr, Spin Off Co, I-58025 Monterotondo Marittimo, Italy								1							Forestry	WOS:000610216900001		
J	Vajravelu, Mary Ellen; Lee, Jung-Jin; Mitteer, Lauren; Zemel, Babette S.; Bittinger, Kyle; De Leon, Diva D.								Gut Microbiome Profile After Pancreatectomy in Infants With Congenital Hyperinsulinism								PANCREAS				50	1			89	92		10.1097/MPA.0000000000001708			JAN 2021	2021	Objectives: The objective of this study was to characterize gut microbiome profiles of infants with congenital hyperinsulinism (HI) who underwent near-total or partial pancreatectomy for hypoglycemia management, as compared with healthy controls. Methods: A prospective observational cohort study was performed. Subjects were infants (0-6 months) with HI who underwent removal of pancreatic tissue for management of intractable hypoglycemia from February 2017 to February 2018 at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Fecal samples were collected postoperatively, on full enteral nutrition. The gut microbiome of HI subjects was analyzed and compared with age-matched samples from healthy infants. Results: Seven subjects with >= 50% pancreatectomy and 6 with <50% pancreatectomy were included. a (within-sample) diversity was lowest among infants with >= 50% pancreatectomy (richness: false discovery rate, 0.003; Shannon index: false discovery rate, 0.01). beta (between-sample) diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, P = 0.02; Jaccard distance, P = 0.001) differed across groups (>= or <50% pancreatectomy, controls). Bifidobacteria and Klebsiella species were least abundant among infants with >= 50% pancreatectomy but did not differ between infants with <50% pancreatectomy and historical controls. Conclusions: Infants with HI who underwent >= 50% pancreatectomy differed from age-matched infants in gut microbiome profile, whereas those with <50% pancreatectomy more closely resembled control profiles. The durability of this difference should be investigated.		[Vajravelu, Mary Ellen; Mitteer, Lauren; De Leon, Diva D.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Endocrinol & Diabet, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Vajravelu, Mary Ellen; Zemel, Babette S.; Bittinger, Kyle; De Leon, Diva D.] Univ Penn, Dept Pediat, Perelman Sch Med, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Lee, Jung-Jin; Mitteer, Lauren; Zemel, Babette S.; Bittinger, Kyle] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Gastoenterol Hepatol & Nutr, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [De Leon, Diva D.] Childrens Hosp Philadelphia, Div Endocrinol & Diabet, Buerger Ctr Adv Pediat Care, Civ Ctr Blvd,12th Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA								2							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000600495100020		
J	Chen, Jun; Shiyomi, Masae; Huang, Daming; Yu, Houlin								Quantitative evaluation of species composition dissimilarity within a community and among communities								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				36	1			152	160		10.1111/1440-1703.12192			JAN 2021	2021	It is often necessary to perform quantitative comparisons and assessments of species composition among plant communities under various land use conditions and landscapes, as well as among plant communities at different stages of restoration or degradation in arid grasslands. In landscapes composed of a number of plant communities, in which many quadrats for a survey are set in each community, the species composition in each quadrat is measured using community variables, such as the presence/absence data (i.e., binary variable), biomass, cover, the number of individuals, or the frequency of occurrences (i.e., quantitative variables) of each species per quadrat. In this study, we defined two types of species composition dissimilarity in vegetation surveys: between different communities and within each community which were calculated based on the species composition of each quadrat, using the Bray-Curtis index. The second type dissimilarity occurs incidentally among quadrats (or micro-sites) even in a community with a relatively uniform structure. Both dissimilarity measures take values from 0 to 1, where larger values indicate larger dissimilarities, and the quadrat-to-quadrat variation in dissimilarity also indicates the degree of heterogeneity in the spatial pattern of species composition. Quantifying dissimilarity between and within communities remains a challenge in ecological applications. We proposed a new model to quantify community dissimilarity and applied this model to a grassland vegetation survey dataset. Quantitative variables resulted in more precise measures of community structure than binary variable. The advantages of our model relative to other broadly used community structure metrics based on the Jaccard and Sorensen indices were discussed.		[Chen, Jun; Yu, Houlin] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Grassland Agr, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Shiyomi, Masae] Ibaraki Univ, Bunkyo 2-2, Mito, Ibaraki, Japan; [Huang, Daming] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Biol Sci & Biotechnol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Jun] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Grassland Agr, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								4							Ecology	WOS:000601319900001		
J	Bezabih, Azmeraw Alemkere; Gabayo, Fayera Bakala; Wakjira, Tesfaye Tolossa								Avifauna diversity and anthropogenic threats of wetlands in South-Western Ethiopia								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				59	2			412	423		10.1111/aje.12826			JUN 2021	2021	This study was conducted to investigate avifauna diversity and anthropogenic threats to wetlands in Sheka and Bench-Maji Zones. A total of 5 wetlands, 4 swamps and 1 artificial lake, were purposely selected. Avian diversity data were collected using point count method. Household surveys were undertaken to collect data on anthropogenic threats of wetlands. A total of 1,130 individuals of birds belonging to 28 families and 61 species were recorded. Species richness and diversity were higher in the wet season (51 species, H = 3.65) than the dry season (40 species, H = 3.37). The Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index (BC) revealed the three study sites were 78.77% dissimilar in species composition (BCijk = 0.7877) with a total number of 18 shared species. Chega-Gawussi wetlands and Chonkie-Shinke wetlands have 70.89% similarity with BC Dissimilarity Index value of 0.291. The study identified that drainage for farming practices, grass overexploitation and Eucalyptus plantations were the main threats to Chonke-Shinkie wetlands, and Lake Dembi has been threatened by sedimentation from the adjacent farmlands, waste disposal from the Mizan-Aman Municipality, coffee washing plantations, whereas Chega-Gawussi wetlands were affected by grass overexploitation and deforestation. Therefore, due attention and conservation actions are required from stakeholders for the protection of these ecosystems.		[Bezabih, Azmeraw Alemkere] Bahir Dar Univ, Sch Fisheries & Wildlife, Dept Wildlife & Ecotourism Management, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Gabayo, Fayera Bakala; Wakjira, Tesfaye Tolossa] Mizan Tepi Univ, Coll Agr & Nat Resources, Dept Nat Resource Management, Mizan Aman, Ethiopia; [Bezabih, Azmeraw Alemkere] Bahir Dar Univ, Sch Fisheries & Wildlife, Dept Wildlife & Ecotourism Management, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia								3							Ecology	WOS:000596126400001		
J	Ritz, Sabrina; Hahn, Daniela; Wami, Haleluya T.; Tegelkamp, Karin; Dobrindt, Ulrich; Schnekenburger, Juergen								Gut microbiome as a response marker for pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in a porcine model of exocrine pancreas insufficiency								MICROBIAL CELL FACTORIES				19	1					221	10.1186/s12934-020-01482-2			DEC 3 2020	2020	Background Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI) is characterized by the loss of active pancreatic enzymes and a resulting severely reduced food digestion. EPI therapy requires orally applied pancreatic enzyme replacement. The gut microbiome is a known mediator of intestinal diseases and may influence the outcome of EPI and the effects of a pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT). Here, we analyzed the effects of EPI and PERT on the gut microbiome in the model of pancreatic duct ligated minipigs. Results The microbial community composition in pig feces was analyzed by next generation sequencing of 16S rRNA amplicons. The data were evaluated for alpha- and beta-diversity changes and changes at the different Operational Taxonomic Unit (OTU) levels by Shannon-Wiener and inverse Simpson index calculation as well as by Principal Coordinates Analysis based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. Microbial alpha-diversity was reduced after EPI induction and reverted to nearly healthy state after PERT. Analysis of microbial composition and beta-diversity showed distinctive clusters of the three study groups and a change towards a composition comparable to healthy animals upon PERT. The relative abundance of possible pathobionts like Escherichia/Shigella, Acinetobacter or Stenotrophomonas was reduced by PERT. Conclusion These data demonstrate that EPI-induced dysbiosis could be reverted by PERT to a nearly healthy state. Elevated alpha-diversity and the reduction of bacterial overgrowth after PERT promises benefits for EPI patients. Non-invasive microbiome studies may be useful for EPI therapy monitoring and as marker for response to PERT.		[Ritz, Sabrina; Hahn, Daniela; Schnekenburger, Juergen] Univ Munster, Biomed Technol Ctr, Fac Med, Mendelstr 17, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Wami, Haleluya T.; Tegelkamp, Karin; Dobrindt, Ulrich] Univ Munster, Inst Hyg, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Schnekenburger, Juergen] Univ Munster, Biomed Technol Ctr, Fac Med, Mendelstr 17, D-48149 Munster, Germany								8							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology	WOS:000595576400001		
J	Ribeiro, Raquel; Ricklefs, Robert E.; Marinho-Filho, Jader								Partitioning beta diversity to unravel mechanisms underlying the distributions of nonvolant small mammls in Brazil's Cerrado								JOURNAL OF MAMMALOGY				101	6			1438	1450		10.1093/jmammal/gyaa085			DEC 2020	2020	Species distributions and the mechanisms that produce patterns in the occupation space are recurrent themes in community ecology. Here, we examine beta diversity among assemblages of small mammals in the Cerrado domain of Brazil to partition the effects of turnover and nestedness on species distributions. Our objective was to evaluate whether balanced spatial variation in abundance (beta(bal)) and abundance gradients (beta(gra)) are congruent within and among habitats and localities of the Brazilian Cerrado. In addition, we wanted to understand whether ecological mechanisms, such as dispersal limitation, habitat filtering, and species sorting, drive the distribution patterns of the Cerrado small mammals. We analyzed the occurrence and abundances of small mammals from 16 localities widely distributed across the Cerrado biome, and grouped our data with respect to two distinct spatial scales. Baselga's Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity and its respective partitions, i.e., balanced variation in abundance (beta(bal)) and abundance gradients (beta(gra)), were estimated between sampling units at the two spatial scales. Thus, we used exponential models to search for distance decay in species similarity between pairs of localities and between similar habitats. Our results show that differences between small mammal assemblages in the Cerrado are driven mainly by species replacement rather than independent gain or loss of species, both at small and large scales. The spatial turnover patterns of small mammals in the Cerrado biome are determined by a combination of large scale (biogeographic, spatial) and local mechanisms (low dispersal and habitat specificity). However, processes occurring at small scales seem to be more important in species sorting than processes occurring at large scales. The spatial configuration of the landscape and the extent and quality of habitats strongly influence the rate of species turnover in Cerrado. Thus, protecting the different types of habitats should be of prime importance to conserving the diversity of Cerrado small mammals.		[Ribeiro, Raquel] Univ Brasilia, Dept Ecol, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ricklefs, Robert E.] Univ Missouri, Dept Biol, One Univ Blvd, St Louis, MO 63121 USA; [Marinho-Filho, Jader] Univ Brasilia, Dept Zool, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Raquel] Univ Fed Sul & Sudeste Para, Museu Biodiversidade Tauari, BR-68000500 Maraba, PA, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Raquel] Univ Brasilia, Dept Ecol, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Raquel] Univ Fed Sul & Sudeste Para, Museu Biodiversidade Tauari, BR-68000500 Maraba, PA, Brazil								5							Zoology	WOS:000634890900003		
J	Polania, Brayan S.; Aldana, Ana M.; Bottin, Marius; Cruz, Diana M.; Castro-Lima, Francisco; Stevenson, Pablo R.; Sanchez, Adriana								Effect of Seasonal Rains and Floods on Seedling Recruitment and Compositional Similarity in Two Lowland Tropical Forests								FORESTS				11	12					1297	10.3390/f11121297			DEC 2020	2020	Research Highlights: Seasonally flooded and terra firme forests are characteristic ecosystems of the Colombian Orinoco Basin and of great importance in the maintenance of regional biodiversity and ecosystem function. These forests have a unimodal precipitation regime that can cause a temporal effect on the seedling regeneration niche. This could partly explain the high diversity and coexistence of plant species in these forests, as well as the similarity in composition of seedlings and trees. Background and Objectives: Seedlings are a key factor in the assembly of plant communities. We evaluated the effect of flooding and rains on the dissimilarity and compositional affinity between trees and seedlings of seasonally flooded and terra firme forests. Materials and Methods: the tree community of these forests in San Martin (Meta, Colombia) was characterized and compared with their respective seedling communities before (June) and after (December) rain and flooding (during the rainy season). We evaluated plant species diversity and abundance (Shannon diversity and Pielou eveness index), as well as the compositional dissimilarities of each tree community with their corresponding seedling community sampled at the beginning and end of rains and flooding (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity). We also compared sampling site composition using a NMDS analysis. Results: We found that the terra firme forest had higher diversity compared to the flooded forest. Seedling density in the seasonally flooded forest decreased significantly after the flood but not in the terra firme forest at the end of the rainy season. The compositional dissimilarity between trees and seedlings in the seasonally inundated forest also decreased after the flood. However, this pattern was not evident in the terra firme forest. Conclusions: These results indicate that seasonal flooding generates a strong ecological filter that affects the realized niche of plants in these forests. Our results can contribute valuable information for the effective development of assisted restoration and conservation programs.		[Polania, Brayan S.; Bottin, Marius; Sanchez, Adriana] Univ Rosario, Fac Ciencias Nat, Programa Biol, Carrera 24 63C-69, Bogota 111221, Colombia; [Aldana, Ana M.] Univ Rosario, Direcc Invest & Innovac, Bogota 111711, Colombia; [Cruz, Diana M.; Stevenson, Pablo R.] Univ Los Andes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Lab Ecol Bosques Trop & Primatol, Carrera 1 18A-12, Bogota 111711, Colombia; [Sanchez, Adriana] Univ Rosario, Fac Ciencias Nat, Programa Biol, Carrera 24 63C-69, Bogota 111221, Colombia								2							Forestry	WOS:000602001900001		
J	Zafeiropoulou, Konstantina; Nichols, Ben; Mackinder, Mary; Biskou, Olga; Rizou, Eleni; Karanikolou, Antonia; Clark, Clare; Buchanan, Elaine; Cardigan, Tracey; Duncan, Hazel; Wands, David; Russell, Julie; Hansen, Richard; Russell, Richard K.; McGrogan, Paraic; Edwards, Christine A.; Ijaz, Umer Z.; Gerasimidis, Konstantinos								Alterations in Intestinal Microbiota of Children With Celiac Disease at the Time of Diagnosis and on a Gluten-free Diet								GASTROENTEROLOGY				159	6						10.1053/j.gastro.2020.08.007			DEC 2020	2020	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: It is not clear whether alterations in the intestinal microbiota of children with celiac disease (CD) cause the disease or are a result of disease and/or its treatment with a gluten-free diet (GFD). METHODS: We obtained 167 fecal samples from 141 children (20 with new onset CD, 45 treated with a GFD, 57 healthy children, and 19 unaffected siblings of children with CD) in Glasgow, Scotland. Samples were analyzed by 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing, and diet-related metabolites were measured by gas chromatography. We obtained fecal samples from 13 children with new-onset CD after 6 and 12 months on a GFD. Relationships between microbiota with diet composition, gastrointestinal function, and biomarkers of GFD compliance were explored. RESULTS: Microbiota a diversity did not differ among groups. Microbial dysbiosis was not observed in children with new-onset CD. In contrast, 2.8% (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, P = .025) and 2.5% (UniFrac distances, P = .027) of the variation in microbiota composition could be explained by the GFD. Between 3% and 5% of all taxa differed among all group comparisons. Eleven distinctive operational taxonomic units composed a microbe signature specific to CD with high diagnostic probability. Most operational taxonomic units that differed between patients on a GFD with new-onset CD vs healthy children were associated with nutrient and food group intake (from 75% to 94%) and with biomarkers of gluten ingestion. Fecal levels of butyrate and ammonia decreased during the GFD. CONCLUSIONS: Although several alterations in the intestinal microbiota of children with established CD appear to be effects of a GFD, specific bacteria were found to be distinct biomarkers of CD. Studies are needed to determine whether these bacteria contribute to pathogenesis of CD.		[Zafeiropoulou, Konstantina; Nichols, Ben; Mackinder, Mary; Biskou, Olga; Rizou, Eleni; Karanikolou, Antonia; Clark, Clare; Edwards, Christine A.; Gerasimidis, Konstantinos] Univ Glasgow, Glasgow Royal Infirm, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Sch Med Dent & Nursing,Human Nutr, New Lister Bldg, Glasgow G31 2ER, Lanark, Scotland; [Buchanan, Elaine; Cardigan, Tracey; Duncan, Hazel; Wands, David; Hansen, Richard; Russell, Richard K.; McGrogan, Paraic] Royal Hosp Children, Dept Paediat Gastroenterol, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Russell, Julie; Ijaz, Umer Z.] Univ Glasgow, Sch Engn, Civil Engn, Glasgow, Lanark, Scotland; [Gerasimidis, Konstantinos] Univ Glasgow, Glasgow Royal Infirm, Coll Med Vet & Life Sci, Sch Med Dent & Nursing,Human Nutr, New Lister Bldg, Glasgow G31 2ER, Lanark, Scotland								40							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000597918300011		
J	Feye, Kristina M.; Swaggerty, Christina L.; Kogut, Michael H.; Ricke, Steven C.; Piva, Andrea; Grilli, Ester								The biological effects of microencapsulated organic acids and botanicals induces tissue-specific and dose-dependent changes to the <i>Gallus gallus</i> microbiota								BMC MICROBIOLOGY				20	1					332	10.1186/s12866-020-02001-4			NOV 2 2020	2020	Background Microencapsulated organic acids and botanicals have the potential to develop into important tools for the poultry industry. A blend of organic acids and botanicals (AviPlus (R) P) has previously shown to reduce Salmonella and Campylobacter in chickens; however, changes to the microbiota of the jejunum and ileum have not been evaluated. Microbiota diversity is linked to, but not correlated with, the efficacy of natural products; therefore, understanding the effects on the microbiota is necessary for evaluating their potential as an antibiotic alternative. Results Ileal and jejunal segments from control and supplement-fed chickens (300 and 500 g/metric ton [MT]) were subjected to alpha diversity analysis including Shannon's diversity and Pielou's Evenness. In both analytics, the diversity in the ileum was significantly decreased compared to the jejunum irrespective of treatment. Similarly, beta diversity metrics including Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and Weighted Unifrac Distance Matrix, were significant (Q < 0.05) for both tissue and treatments comparisons. Alpha and beta diversity analytics indicated compartmentalization effects between the ileum and jejunum. Additionally, analysis of communities in the microbiota (ANCOM) analysis showed Lactobacilliaceae predominated the total operational taxonomic units (OTU), with a stepwise increase from 53% in the no treatment control (NTC) to 56% in the 300 g/MT and 67% in the 500 g/MT group. Staphylococcaceae were 2% in NTC and 2 and 0% in 300 and 500 g/MT groups. Enterobacteriaceae decreased in the 500 g/MT (31%) and increased in the 300 g/MT (37%) compared to the NTC (35%). Aerococcaceae was 0% for both doses and 7% in NTC. Ruminococcaceae were 0% in NTC and 2 and 1% in the 300 and 500 g/MT. These changes in the microbial consortia were statistically (Q < 0.05) associated with treatment groups in the jejunum that were not observed in the ileum. Least discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSE) indicated different changes directly corresponding to treatment. Enterobacteriaceae demonstrated a stepwise decrease (from NTC onward) while Clostridiaceae, were significantly increased in the 500 g/MT compared to NTC and 300 g/MT (P < 0.05). Conclusion The bioactive site for the microencapsulated blend of organic acids and botanicals was the jejunum, and dietary inclusion enhanced the GIT microbiota and may be a viable antibiotic alternative for the poultry industry.		[Feye, Kristina M.; Swaggerty, Christina L.; Kogut, Michael H.] ARS, USDA, Southern Plains Agr Res Serv, 2881 F&B Rd, College Stn, TX 77845 USA; [Ricke, Steven C.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Anim & Dairy Sci, Meat Sci Anim Biol Discovery Program, Madison, WI USA; [Piva, Andrea; Grilli, Ester] Univ Bologna, DIMEVET, Bologna, Italy; [Piva, Andrea] Vetagro SpA, Reggio Emilia, Italy; [Grilli, Ester] Vetagro Inc, Chicago, IL USA; [Swaggerty, Christina L.] ARS, USDA, Southern Plains Agr Res Serv, 2881 F&B Rd, College Stn, TX 77845 USA								8							Microbiology	WOS:000588320700002		
J	Savietto, D.; Paes, C.; Cauquil, L.; Fortun-Lamothe, L.; Combes, S.								Evolution of gut microbial community through reproductive life in female rabbits and investigation of the link with offspring survival								ANIMAL				14	11			2253	2261	PII S1751731120001305	10.1017/S1751731120001305			NOV 2020	2020	The digestive microbiota plays a decisive role in shaping and preserving health throughout life. Rabbit younglings are born with a sterile digestive tract but then it gets progressively colonised by the microbiota of the nursing mother, by entering in contact with or ingesting the maternal droppings present in the nest. Here we posit that (i) offspring survival and (ii) lifespan of female rabbits are linked to how diverse their microbiota are. To test the hypothesis that maternal microbiota evolves in females having had different levels of offspring survival in their lifetime, we obtained 216 hard faecal samples from 75 female rabbits at ages 19.6, 31.6, 62.6 and 77.6 weeks. The annual mean offspring survival (MOS) at 64 days was calculated for each female then crossed against three alpha-diversity indexes (operational taxonomic units (OTUs), inverse Simpson index and Shannon index). Age was also analysed against these three parameters. The alpha-diversity indexes of the female faecal microbiota did not correlate with MOS, but they did decrease with age (e.g. from 712 OTUs at age 19.6 weeks to 444 OTUs at 77.6 weeks;P< 0.05). The age effect was also found in beta-diversity non-metric multidimensional scaling plots using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and the unweighted UniFrac index but not for MOS. The ability of the microbiota composition from the faecal samples of young females (19.6 weeks old) to predict their lifespan was also evaluated. After subdividing the initial population into two classes (females that weaned a maximum of three litters and females living longer), we found no clear distinction between these two classes. To our knowledge, this is the first long-term study to characterise the gut microbiota of adult female rabbits through their reproductive life, thus laying foundations for using the gut microbiota data and its influence in studies on adult rabbits.		[Savietto, D.; Paes, C.; Cauquil, L.; Fortun-Lamothe, L.; Combes, S.] Univ Toulouse, GenPhySE, INRAE, ENVT, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Savietto, D.] Univ Toulouse, GenPhySE, INRAE, ENVT, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France								3							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000574897100005		
J	Chimaimba, Frank B.; Kafumbata, Dalitso; Chanyenga, Tembo; Chiotha, Sosten								Urban tree species composition and diversity in Zomba city, Malawi: Does land use type matter?								URBAN FORESTRY & URBAN GREENING				54						126781	10.1016/j.ufug.2020.126781			OCT 2020	2020	Urban landscapes do harbour trees despite being predominantly built-up areas. These trees are increasingly becoming a depository of tree species diversity. Even so, little is known about such potential in developing countries. This study therefore sought to establish tree species composition and diversity, and their variations across six land use types of Zomba city, Malawi. The study results revealed that Zomba city harbours 168 tree species, belonging to 47 families. Of these species, 63.6% were indigenous. Mangifera indica, an exotic fruit tree, is found among the top three most abundant tree species in three land use types: Roads, residential areas, and institutional land. Shannon diversity index values were different across six land use types, with high values observed in institutional areas (H'=4.08). Species evenness was high in graveyards (E-Q=0.31) and low in residential areas (E-Q=0.15). Bray-Curtis index revealed high dissimilarity of species composition in all pairs except a pair of institutional land and residential areas (0.67). The pattern was also confirmed using detrended correspondence analysis. The discrepancies in species composition between land use types was associated with difference in their levels of anthropogenic activities. Overall, the study results confirm that urban landscapes in Africa are important depository of tree species composition and diversity that differ with land use type. The influence of other factors to species heterogeneity and importance of such diversity in providing ecosystem services to the urban landscapes needs further investigation.		[Chimaimba, Frank B.; Chiotha, Sosten] Leadership Environm & Dev Southern Eastern Africa, Zomba, Malawi; [Kafumbata, Dalitso] Univ Malawi, Chancellor Coll, Dept Biol Sci, Zomba, Malawi; [Chanyenga, Tembo] Forest Res Inst Malawi FRIM, Zomba, Malawi; [Chimaimba, Frank B.] Leadership Environm & Dev Southern Eastern Africa, Zomba, Malawi								11							Plant Sciences; Environmental Studies; Forestry; Urban Studies	WOS:000569421500006		
J	Nakadai, Ryosuke								Degrees of compositional shift in tree communities vary along a gradient of temperature change rates over one decade: Application of an individual-based temporal beta-diversity concept; Degrees of compositional equilibrium in tree communities vary along a gradient of temperature change rates over one decade: Application of an individual-based temporal beta diversity concept								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION; ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				10	24			13613	13623		10.1002/ece3.6579			DEC 2020	2020	Temporal patterns in communities have gained widespread attention recently, to the extent that temporal changes in community composition are now termed "temporal beta-diversity." Previous studies of beta-diversity have made use of two classes of dissimilarity indices: incidence-based (e.g., Sorensen and Jaccard dissimilarity) and abundance-based (e.g., Bray-Curtis and Ruzicka dissimilarity). However, in the context of temporal beta-diversity, the persistence of identical individuals and turnover among other individuals within the same species over time have not been considered, despite the fact that both will affect compositional changes in communities. To address this issue, I propose new index concepts for beta-diversity and the relative speed of compositional shifts in relation to individual turnover based on individual identity information. Individual-based beta-diversity indices are novel dissimilarity indices that consider individual identity information to quantitatively evaluate temporal change in individual turnover and community composition. I applied these new indices to individually tracked tree monitoring data in deciduous and evergreen broad-leaved forests across the Japanese archipelago with the objective of quantifying the effect of climate change trends (i.e., rates of change in both annual mean temperature and annual precipitation) on individual turnover and compositional shifts at each site. A new index explored the relative contributions of mortality and recruitment processes to temporal changes in community composition. Clear patterns emerged showing that an increase in the temperature change rate facilitated the relative contribution of mortality components. The relative speed of compositional shift increased with increasing temperature change rates in deciduous forests but decreased with increasing warming rates in evergreen forests. These new concepts provide a way to identify novel and high-resolution temporal patterns in communities.		[Nakadai, Ryosuke] Univ Eastern Finland, Fac Sci & Forestry, Dept Environm & Biol Sci, Yliopistokatu 7, Joensuu 80101, Finland; [Nakadai, Ryosuke] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci, Dept Ecosyst Studies, Tokyo, Japan; [Nakadai, Ryosuke] Univ Eastern Finland, Fac Sci & Forestry, Dept Environm & Biol Sci, Yliopistokatu 7, Joensuu 80101, Finland								3							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000572138800001		
J	Modin, Oskar; Liebana, Raquel; Saheb-Alam, Soroush; Wilen, Britt-Marie; Suarez, Carolina; Hermansson, Malte; Persson, Frank								Hill-based dissimilarity indices and null models for analysis of microbial community assembly								MICROBIOME				8	1					132	10.1186/s40168-020-00909-7			SEP 11 2020	2020	BackgroundHigh-throughput amplicon sequencing of marker genes, such as the 16S rRNA gene in Bacteria and Archaea, provides a wealth of information about the composition of microbial communities. To quantify differences between samples and draw conclusions about factors affecting community assembly, dissimilarity indices are typically used. However, results are subject to several biases, and data interpretation can be challenging. The Jaccard and Bray-Curtis indices, which are often used to quantify taxonomic dissimilarity, are not necessarily the most logical choices. Instead, we argue that Hill-based indices, which make it possible to systematically investigate the impact of relative abundance on dissimilarity, should be used for robust analysis of data. In combination with a null model, mechanisms of microbial community assembly can be analyzed. Here, we also introduce a new software, qdiv, which enables rapid calculations of Hill-based dissimilarity indices in combination with null models.ResultsUsing amplicon sequencing data from two experimental systems, aerobic granular sludge (AGS) reactors and microbial fuel cells (MFC), we show that the choice of dissimilarity index can have considerable impact on results and conclusions. High dissimilarity between replicates because of random sampling effects make incidence-based indices less suited for identifying differences between groups of samples. Determining a consensus table based on count tables generated with different bioinformatic pipelines reduced the number of low-abundant, potentially spurious amplicon sequence variants (ASVs) in the data sets, which led to lower dissimilarity between replicates. Analysis with a combination of Hill-based indices and a null model allowed us to show that different ecological mechanisms acted on different fractions of the microbial communities in the experimental systems.ConclusionsHill-based indices provide a rational framework for analysis of dissimilarity between microbial community samples. In combination with a null model, the effects of deterministic and stochastic community assembly factors on taxa of different relative abundances can be systematically investigated. Calculations of Hill-based dissimilarity indices in combination with a null model can be done in qdiv, which is freely available as a Python package (https://github.com/omvatten/qdiv). In qdiv, a consensus table can also be determined from several count tables generated with different bioinformatic pipelines.		[Modin, Oskar; Liebana, Raquel; Saheb-Alam, Soroush; Wilen, Britt-Marie; Persson, Frank] Chalmers Univ Technol, Water Environm Technol Architecture & Civil Engn, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Suarez, Carolina; Hermansson, Malte] Univ Gothenburg, Chem & Mol Biol, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Modin, Oskar] Chalmers Univ Technol, Water Environm Technol Architecture & Civil Engn, Gothenburg, Sweden								21							Microbiology	WOS:000571904300004		
J	Raju, Sajan C.; Viljakainen, Heli; Figueiredo, Rejane A. O.; Neuvonen, Pertti J.; Eriksson, Johan G.; Weiderpass, Elisabete; Rounge, Trine B.								Antimicrobial drug use in the first decade of life influences saliva microbiota diversity and composition								MICROBIOME				8	1					121	10.1186/s40168-020-00893-y			AUG 21 2020	2020	Background: The human microbiota contributes to health and well-being. Antimicrobials (AM) have an immediate effect on microbial diversity and composition in the gut, but next to nothing is known about their long-term contribution to saliva microbiota. Our objectives were to investigate the long-term impact of AM use on saliva microbiota diversity and composition in preadolescents. We compared the lifetime effects by gender and AMs. We used data from 808 randomly selected children in the Finnish Health In Teens (Fin-HIT) cohort with register-based data on AM purchases from the Social Insurance Institution of Finland. Saliva microbiota was assessed with 16S rRNA (V3-V4) sequencing. The sequences were aligned to the SILVA ribosomal RNA database and classified and counted using the mothur pipeline. Associations between AM use and alpha-diversity (Shannon index) were identified with linear regression, while associations between beta-diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) and low, medium or high AM use were identified with PERMANOVA. Results: Of the children, 53.6% were girls and their mean age was 11.7 (0.4) years. On average, the children had 7.4 (ranging from 0 to 41) AM prescriptions during their lifespan. The four most commonly used AMs were amoxicillin (n= 2622, 43.7%), azithromycin (n= 1495, 24.9%), amoxicillin-clavulanate (n= 1123, 18.7%) and phenoxymethylpenicillin (n= 408, 6.8%). A linear inverse association was observed between the use of azithromycin and Shannon index (b- 0.015,pvalue = 0.002) in all children, the effect was driven by girls (b- 0.032,pvalue = 0.001), while not present in boys. Dissimilarities were marked between high, medium and low users of all AMs combined, in azithromycin users specifically, and in boys with amoxicillin use. Amoxicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanate use was associated with the largest decrease in abundance ofRikenellaceae. AM use in general and phenoxymethylpenicillin specifically were associated with a decrease ofPaludibacterand pathways related to amino acid degradations differed in proportion between high and low AM users. Conclusions: A systematic approach utilising reliable registry data on lifetime use of AMs demonstrated long-term effects on saliva microbiota diversity and composition. These effects are gender- and AM-dependent. We found that frequent lifelong use of AMs shifts bacterial profiles years later, which might have unforeseen health impacts in the future. Our findings emphasise a concern for high azithromycin use, which substantially decreases bacterial diversity and affects composition as well. Further studies are needed to determine the clinical implications of our findings.		[Raju, Sajan C.; Viljakainen, Heli; Figueiredo, Rejane A. O.; Eriksson, Johan G.; Rounge, Trine B.] Folkhalsan Res Ctr, Topeliuksenkatu 20, Helsinki 00250, Finland; [Raju, Sajan C.; Figueiredo, Rejane A. O.; Rounge, Trine B.] Univ Helsinki, Fac Med, Helsinki, Finland; [Viljakainen, Heli] Univ Helsinki, Dept Food & Environm Sci, Helsinki, Finland; [Neuvonen, Pertti J.] Univ Helsinki, Dept Clin Pharmacol, Helsinki, Finland; [Neuvonen, Pertti J.; Eriksson, Johan G.] Helsinki Univ Hosp, Helsinki, Finland; [Eriksson, Johan G.] Univ Helsinki, Dept Gen Practice & Primary Hlth Care, Helsinki, Finland; [Eriksson, Johan G.] Natl Univ Singapore, Yong Loo Lin Sch Med, Singapore, Singapore; [Weiderpass, Elisabete] WHO, Int Agcy Res Canc, Lyon, France; [Rounge, Trine B.] Canc Registry Norway, Dept Res, Oslo, Norway; [Rounge, Trine B.] Univ Oslo, Dept Informat, Oslo, Norway; [Rounge, Trine B.] Folkhalsan Res Ctr, Topeliuksenkatu 20, Helsinki 00250, Finland; [Rounge, Trine B.] Univ Helsinki, Fac Med, Helsinki, Finland								16							Microbiology	WOS:000567117300001		
J	Beule, Lukas; Karlovsky, Petr								Improved normalization of species count data in ecology by scaling with ranked subsampling (SRS): application to microbial communities								PEERJ				8						e9593	10.7717/peerj.9593			AUG 3 2020	2020	Background. Analysis of species count data in ecology often requires normalization to an identical sample size. Rarefying (random subsampling without replacement), which is the current standard method for normalization, has been widely criticized for its poor reproducibility and potential distortion of the community structure. In the context of microbiome count data, researchers explicitly advised against the use of rarefying. Here we introduce a normalization method for species count data called scaling with ranked subsampling (SRS) and demonstrate its suitability for the analysis of microbial communities. Methods. SRS consists of two steps. In the scaling step, the counts for all species or operational taxonomic units (OTUs) are divided by a scaling factor chosen in such a way that the sum of scaled counts equals the selected total number of counts C-min. The relative frequencies of all OTUs remain unchanged. In the subsequent ranked subsampling step, non-integer count values are converted into integers by an algorithm that minimizes subsampling error with regard to the population structure (relative frequencies of species or OTUs) while keeping the total number of counts equal C-min. SRS and rarefying were compared by normalizing a test library representing a soil bacterial community. Common parameters of biodiversity and population structure (Shannon index H', species richness, species composition, and relative abundances of OTUs) were determined for libraries normalized to different size by rarefying as well as SRS with 10,000 replications each. An implementation of SRS in R is available for download (https://doi.org/10.20387/BONARES-2657-1NP3). Results. SRS showed greater reproducibility and preserved OTU frequencies and alpha diversity better than rarefying. The variance in Shannon diversity increased with the reduction of the library size after rarefying but remained zero for SRS. Relative abundances of OTUs strongly varied among libraries generated by rarefying, whereas libraries normalized by SRS showed only negligible variation. Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity among replicates of the same library normalized by rarefying revealed a large variation in species composition, which reached complete dissimilarity (not a single OTU shared) among some libraries rarefied to a small size. The dissimilarity among replicated libraries normalized by SRS remained negligibly low at each library size. The variance in dissimilarity increased with the decreasing library size after rarefying, whereas it remained either zero or negligibly low after SRS. Conclusions. Normalization of OTU or species counts by scaling with ranked subsampling preserves the original community structure by minimizing subsampling errors. We therefore propose SRS for the normalization of biological count data.		[Beule, Lukas; Karlovsky, Petr] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Mol Phytopathol & Mycotoxin Res, Gottingen, Germany; [Beule, Lukas] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Mol Phytopathol & Mycotoxin Res, Gottingen, Germany								89							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000554824100004		
J	Ge, Yingqiang; Pan, Hui; Zhang, Jing; Zhang, Dong; Wu, Jie								Exotic <i>Spartina alterniflora</i> invasion changes temporal dynamics and composition of spider community in a salt marsh of Yangtze Estuary, China								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				239						106755	10.1016/j.ecss.2020.106755			JUL 5 2020	2020	Spiders play important roles in regulating arthropod populations in terrestrial ecosystems. However, the impact of exotic plant invasion on the spider community is still poorly understood, especially in salt marsh systems, which are especially susceptible to this invasion. The exotic Spartina alterniflora has widely invaded the coastal wetlands of China, and this study aims to evaluate such effects on the spider diversity and community composition in the Jiuduansha wetland of Yangtze Estuary. To do this, for a one-year period, we have collected spiders from the marsh surface (SMS) as well as spiders from the plant foliage surface (SPFS) respectively in S. alterniflora-dominated marshes (SDM) and native Phragmites austra/is-dominated marshes (PDM) in Jiuduansha. Results showed S. alterniflora invasion generally had a positive effect on the biodiversities of both SMS and SPFS, but actually changed the seasonal fluctuation of species richness and abundance of SMS. According to principal component analysis, community compositions of SMS and SPFS were different between SDM and PDM. Specially, SMS community composition exhibited more obvious temporal patterns in PDM than in SDM. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index between SDM and PDM varied more between sampling months in SMS than in SPFS. Based on canonical correspondence analysis, tidal elevation significantly affected community compositions of SMS and SPFS in SDM. In contrast, for spiders in PDM, tidal elevation had a weakened effect on SMS community composition. This may be explained by the different distribution of the two plants at high and low tidal levels. In summary, our study suggests that S. alterniflora invasion has changed the temporal dynamic and composition of the spider community in the Jiuduansha wetland. In future research, it should be highlighted that variations in habitat characteristics and ecological niches of spiders are important in mediating the invasive effects of exotic plants on the native spider community.		[Ge, Yingqiang; Zhang, Dong] Beijing Forestry Univ, Sch Nat Conservat, 35 Tsinghua East Rd, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Ge, Yingqiang; Pan, Hui; Zhang, Jing; Wu, Jie] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Plant Physiol & Ecol, Shanghai Inst Biol Sci, Shanghai Entomol Museum, 300 Fenglin Rd, Shanghai 200032, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Dong] Beijing Forestry Univ, Sch Nat Conservat, 35 Tsinghua East Rd, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Wu, Jie] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Plant Physiol & Ecol, Shanghai Inst Biol Sci, Shanghai Entomol Museum, 300 Fenglin Rd, Shanghai 200032, Peoples R China								3							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000531077000003		
J	Peng Yu; Tao Zi-ye; Xu Zi-yan; Bai Lan								Detection of Plant Species Beta-Diversity in Hunshandak Sandy Grasslands Using Hyperspectral Data								SPECTROSCOPY AND SPECTRAL ANALYSIS				40	7			2016	2022		10.3964/j.issn.1000-0593(2020)07-2016-07			JUL 2020	2020	Spectral analysis has been increasingly applied to estimate plant species diversity through the world, especially for biodiversity field. Although spectral variability hypothesis (SVH) has been widely proved in estimating plant alpha diversity for tropical, temperate, and sub-tropical forests, meadow, steppe and grasslands, however, the performance on beta diversity is still lack. In this study, we measured the hyperspectral reflectances and plant species diversity indices of 270 plots at a fine scale (0. 8 meter) in central Hunshandak sandy grasslands of Inner Mongolia, China. 195 plots were used as training data and 75 plots as validating data. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index (BC), Sorensen index (S) and Jaccard index (J) were calculated to indicate actual beta diversity. Based on spectral biological features of different plant species, 164 hyperspectral indices were developed and used to assess plant species beta diversity. Pearson's correlation analysis and multiple linear stepwise regression were conducted based on sensitive wavebands to produce hyperspectral models. The hyperspectral indices which high Pearson's correlation coefficients will be remained for further tested. Communities with different coverages and richness were also used to test the robustness of proposed models. By comparing the stability of hyperspectral indices under different communities, the indices with high stability is remained for validation by 75 plots. Results demonstrated that BC, Euclidean distances of first-order derivation values between 400 similar to 1 000 nm, and BC of 760 similar to 800 nm could accurately estimate species beta diversity. BC can be accurately estimated by hyperspectral indices, since they were both calculated as parameters of the distance between plots. The Jaccard and Sorensen indices were hardly estimated, it is hard to find the suitable wavebands or other parameters in spectral data to replace the "common reflectance" between pairwise plots. This study promotes the development of methods in assessing plant species beta-diversity using hyperspectral data.		[Peng Yu] Beijing Normal Univ, State Key Lab Earth Surface Proc & Resource Ecol, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Peng Yu; Tao Zi-ye; Xu Zi-yan; Bai Lan] Minzu Univ China, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Beijing 100081, Peoples R China; [Peng Yu] Beijing Normal Univ, State Key Lab Earth Surface Proc & Resource Ecol, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Peng Yu] Minzu Univ China, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Beijing 100081, Peoples R China								0							Spectroscopy	WOS:000556010000005		
J	Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Garcia-Gonzalez, Miguel; Pomares, Xavier; Monton, Concepcion; Millares, Laura; Quero, Sara; Prina, Elena; Asensio, Oscar; Bosque, Montserrat; Capilla, Silvia; Cuevas, Oscar; Monso, Eduard								The Respiratory Microbiome in Cystic Fibrosis: Compartment Patterns and Clinical Relationships in Early Stage Disease								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				11						1463	10.3389/fmicb.2020.01463			JUN 30 2020	2020	We compared the bacterial microbiomes lodged in the bronchial tree, oropharynx and nose of patients with early stage cystic fibrosis (CF) not using chronic antibiotics, determining their relationships with lung function and exacerbation frequency. CF patients were enrolled in a cohort study during stability and were checked regularly over the following 9 months. Upper respiratory samples (sputum [S], oropharyngeal swab [OP] and nasal washing [N]) were collected at the first visit and every 3 months. 16S rRNA gene amplification and sequencing was performed and analyzed with QIIME. Seventeen CF patients were enrolled (16.6 SD 9.6 years). Alpha-diversity of bacterial communities between samples was significantly higher in S than in OP (Shannon index median 4.6 [IQR: 4.1-4.9] vs. 3.7 [IQR: 3-1-4.1],p= 0.003/Chao 1 richness estimator median 97.75 [IQR: 85.1-110.9] vs. 43.9 [IQR: 31.7-59.9],p= 0.003) and beta-diversity analysis also showed significant differences in the microbial composition of both respiratory compartments (Adonis test of Bray Curtis dissimilarity matrix,p= 0.001). Dominant taxa were found at baseline in five patients (29.4%), who showed lower forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1%, mean 74.8 [SD 19] vs. 97.2 [SD 17.8],p= 0.035, Studentttest). TheStaphylococcusgenus had low RAs in most samples (median 0.26% [IQR 0.01-0.69%]), but patients with RA > 0.26% of Staphylococcus in bronchial secretions suffered more exacerbations during follow-up (median 2 [IQR 1-2.25] vs. 0 [0-1],p= 0.026. Mann-Whitney U test), due toS. aureusin more than a half of the cases, microorganism that often persists as bronchial colonized in these patients (9/10 [90%] vs. 2/7 [28.6%],p= 0.034, Fisher's exact test). In conclusion, the bronchial microbiome had significantly higher diversity than the microbial flora lodged in the oropharynx in early stage CF. Although the RA of theStaphylococcusgenus was low in bronchial secretions and did not reach a dominance pattern, slight overrepresentations of this genus was associated with higher exacerbation frequencies in these patients.		[Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Pomares, Xavier; Monton, Concepcion; Millares, Laura; Quero, Sara; Prina, Elena; Monso, Eduard] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Inst Invest & Innovacio Parc Tauli I3PT, Dept Resp Med, Sabadell, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Pomares, Xavier; Millares, Laura; Quero, Sara; Monso, Eduard] Inst Salud Carlos III, Ctr Invest Red Enfermedades Resp CIBERES, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Miguel; Pomares, Xavier; Monton, Concepcion; Asensio, Oscar; Bosque, Montserrat] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Cyst Fibrosis Unit, Sabadell, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Miguel; Asensio, Oscar; Bosque, Montserrat; Cuevas, Oscar] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Inst Invest & Innovacio Parc Tauli I3PT, Dept Pediat, Sabadell, Spain; [Garcia-Gonzalez, Miguel; Monso, Eduard] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; [Millares, Laura; Quero, Sara] Fundacio Inst Invest Germans Trias & Pujol, Infect & Resp Dis Res Grp, Badalona, Spain; [Capilla, Silvia] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Dept Microbiol, Sabadell, Spain; [Cuevas, Oscar] Hosp Getafe, Dept Microbiol, Madrid, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Monso, Eduard] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Inst Invest & Innovacio Parc Tauli I3PT, Dept Resp Med, Sabadell, Spain; [Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Monso, Eduard] Inst Salud Carlos III, Ctr Invest Red Enfermedades Resp CIBERES, Madrid, Spain; [Monso, Eduard] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain								10							Microbiology	WOS:000552963200001		
J	Ajene, Inusa J.; Khamis, Fathiya M.; van Asch, Barbara; Pietersen, Gerhard; Rasowo, Brenda A.; Ombura, Fidelis L.; Wairimu, Anne W.; Akutse, Komivi S.; Setamou, Mamoudou; Mohamed, Samira; Ekesi, Sunday								Microbiome diversity in <i>Diaphorina citri</i> populations from Kenya and Tanzania shows links to China								PLOS ONE				15	6					e0235348	10.1371/journal.pone.0235348			JUN 26 2020	2020	The Asian citrus psyllid (Diaphorina citri) is a key pest ofCitrusspp. worldwide, as it acts as a vector for "CandidatusLiberibacter asiaticus (Las)", the bacterial pathogen associated with the destructive Huanglongbing (HLB) disease. Recent detection ofD.citriin Africa and reports of Las-associated HLB in Ethiopia suggest that the citrus industry on the continent is under imminent threat. Endosymbionts and gut bacteria play key roles in the biology of arthropods, especially with regards to vector-pathogen interactions and resistance to antibiotics. Thus, we aim to profile the bacterial genera and to identify antibiotic resistance genes within the microbiome of different populations worldwide ofD.citri. The metagenome ofD.citriwas sequenced using the Oxford Nanopore full-length 16S metagenomics protocol, and the "What's in my pot" (WIMP) analysis pipeline. Microbial diversity within and betweenD.citripopulations was assessed, and antibiotic resistance genes were identified using the WIMP-ARMA workflow. The most abundant genera were key endosymbionts ofD.citri("CandidatusCarsonella", "CandidatusProfftella", andWolbachia). The Shannon diversity index showed thatD.citrifrom Tanzania had the highest diversity of bacterial genera (1.92), andD.citrifrom China had the lowest (1.34). The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity showed that China and Kenya represented the most diverged populations, while the populations from Kenya and Tanzania were the least diverged. The WIMP-ARMA analyses generated 48 CARD genes from 13 bacterial species in each of the populations. Spectinomycin resistance genes were the most frequently found, with an average of 65.98% in all the populations. These findings add to the knowledge on the diversity of the AfricanD.citripopulations and the probable introduction source of the psyllid in these African countries.		[Ajene, Inusa J.; Khamis, Fathiya M.; Rasowo, Brenda A.; Ombura, Fidelis L.; Wairimu, Anne W.; Akutse, Komivi S.; Mohamed, Samira; Ekesi, Sunday] Int Ctr Insect Physiol & Ecol, Nairobi, Kenya; [Ajene, Inusa J.; van Asch, Barbara; Pietersen, Gerhard] Stellenbosch Univ, Dept Genet, Stellenbosch, South Africa; [Ajene, Inusa J.] Ahmadu Bello Univ, Dept Crop Protect, Zaria, Nigeria; [Setamou, Mamoudou] Texas A&M Univ, Kingsville Citrus Ctr, Weslaco, TX USA; [Khamis, Fathiya M.] Int Ctr Insect Physiol & Ecol, Nairobi, Kenya								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000545759800031		
J	Ojima, Miriam N.; Gotoh, Aina; Takada, Hiromi; Odamaki, Toshitaka; Xiao, Jin-Zhong; Katoh, Toshihiko; Katayama, Takane								<i>Bifidobacterium bifidum</i>Suppresses Gut Inflammation Caused by Repeated Antibiotic Disturbance Without Recovering Gut Microbiome Diversity in Mice								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				11						1349	10.3389/fmicb.2020.01349			JUN 18 2020	2020	The gut microbiome is a dynamic community that significantly affects host health; it is frequently disturbed by medications such as antibiotics. Recently, probiotics have been proposed as a remedy for antibiotic-induced dysbiosis, but the efficacy of such treatments remains uncertain. Thus, the effect of specific antibiotic-probiotic combinations on the gut microbiome and host health warrants further research. We tested the effect vancomycin, amoxicillin, and ciprofloxacin on mice. Antibiotic administration was followed by one of the following recovery treatments:Bifidobacterium bifidumJCM 1254 as a probiotic (PR); fecal transplant (FT); or natural recovery (NR). Each antibiotic administration and recovery treatment was repeated three times over 9 weeks. We used the Shannon Index and Chao1 Index to determine gut microbiome diversity and assessed recovery by quantifying the magnitude of microbial shift using the Bray-Curtis Index of Dissimilarity. We determined the community composition by sequencing the V3-V4 regions of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. To assess host health, we measured body weight and cecum weight, as well as mRNA expression of inflammation-related genes by reverse-transcription quantitative PCR. Our results show that community response varied by the type of antibiotic used, with vancomycin having the most significant effects. As a result, the effect of probiotics and fecal transplants also varied by antibiotic type. For vancomycin, the first antibiotic disturbance substantially increased the relative abundance of inflammatory species in the phylum Proteobacteria, such asProteus, but the effect of subsequent disturbances was less pronounced, suggesting that the gut microbiome is affected by past disturbance events. Furthermore, although gut microbiome diversity did not recover, probiotic supplementation was effective in limiting cecum size enlargement and colonic inflammation caused by vancomycin. However, for amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin, the relative abundances of proinflammatory species were not greatly affected, and consequently, the effect of probiotic supplementation on community structure, cecum weight, and expression of inflammation-related genes was comparatively negligible. These results indicate that probiotic supplementation is effective, but only when antibiotics cause proinflammatory species-induced gut inflammation, suggesting that the necessity of probiotic supplementation is strongly influenced by the type of disturbance introduced to the community.		[Ojima, Miriam N.; Gotoh, Aina; Takada, Hiromi; Katoh, Toshihiko; Katayama, Takane] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Biostudies, Div Integrated Life Sci, Kyoto, Japan; [Odamaki, Toshitaka; Xiao, Jin-Zhong] Morinaga Milk Ind Co Ltd, Next Generat Sci Inst, Zama, Japan; [Ojima, Miriam N.; Gotoh, Aina] Kyoto Univ, Grad Sch Biostudies, Div Integrated Life Sci, Kyoto, Japan								19							Microbiology	WOS:000546805700001		
J	Messman, Riley D.; Contreras-Correa, Zully E.; Paz, Henry A.; Perry, George; Lemley, Caleb O.								Vaginal bacterial community composition and concentrations of estradiol at the time of artificial insemination in Brangus heifers								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE				98	6					skaa178	10.1093/jas/skaa178			JUN 2020	2020	The knowledge surrounding the bovine vaginal microbiota and its implications on fertility and reproductive traits remains incomplete. The objective of the current study was to characterize the bovine vaginal bacterial community and estradiol concentrations at the time of artificial insemination (AI). Brangus heifers (n = 78) underwent a 7-d Co-Synch + controlled internal drug release estrus synchronization protocol. At AI, a double-guarded uterine culture swab was used to sample the anterior vaginal tract. Immediately after swabbing the vaginal tract, blood samples were collected by coccygeal venipuncture to determine concentrations of estradiol. Heifers were retrospectively classified as pregnant (n = 29) vs. nonpregnant (n = 49) between 41 and 57 d post-AI. Additionally, heifers were classified into low (1.1 to 2.5 pg/mL; n = 21), medium (2.6 to 6.7 pg/mL; n = 30), and high (7.2 to 17.6 pg/mL; n = 27) concentration of estradiol. The vaginal bacterial community composition was determined through sequencing of the V4 region from the 16S rRNA gene using the Illumina Miseq platform. Alpha diversity was compared via ANOVA and beta diversity was compared via PERMANOVA. There were no differences in the Shannon diversity index (alpha diversity; P = 0.336) or Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (beta diversity; P = 0.744) of pregnant vs. nonpregnant heifers. Overall, bacterial community composition in heifers with high, medium, or low concentrations of estradiol did not differ (P = 0.512). While no overall compositional differences were observed, species-level differences were present within pregnancy status and estradiol concentration groups. The implications of these species-level differences are unknown, but these differences could alter the vaginal environment thereby influencing fertility and vaginal health. Therefore, species-level changes could provide better insight rather than overall microbial composition in relation to an animal's reproductive health.		[Messman, Riley D.; Contreras-Correa, Zully E.; Paz, Henry A.; Lemley, Caleb O.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Anim & Dairy Sci, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Perry, George] South Dakota State Univ, Dept Anim Sci, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Lemley, Caleb O.] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Anim & Dairy Sci, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA								20							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000546330300021		
J	Kuzmin, Yuriy; Dmytrieva, Ivanna; Marushchak, Oleksiy; Morozov-Leonov, Svyatoslav L.; Oskyrko, Oleksandra; Nekrasova, Oksana								Helminth Species and Infracommunities in Frogs <i>Pelophylax ridibundus</i> and <i>P. esculentus</i> (Amphibia: Ranidae) in Northern Ukraine								ACTA PARASITOLOGICA				65	2			341	353		10.2478/s11686-019-00164-3			JUN 2020	2020	Purpose The study aims to characterise and compare the helminth assemblages and helminth infracommunities in the marsh frog, Pelophylax ridibundus and the edible frog, P. esculentus collected in the northern part of Ukraine. Methods Occurrence and abundance of the helminths were analysed by calculating the prevalence, intensity, and mean abundance of infection; similarities between the infracommunities were estimated by the Bray-Curtis index and visualised using nMDS plots. Dissimilarities were estimated using the ANOSIM and SIMPER routines. Results In total, 27 helminth species were found in 143 frogs. Pelophylax ridibundus (n = 86) harboured 20 species of helminths, 24 species were found in P. esculentus (n = 57), and 17 species were shared by the two hosts. Oswaldocruzia bialata and larval Strigea sp. were absent in P. ridibundus, while they reached the prevalence of 30% and 10%, respectively, in P. esculentus. Cosmocerca ornata, Diplodiscus subclavatus, Opisthioglyphe ranae, and Codonocephalus urniger had significantly larger prevalence in P. ridibundus, whereas Haematoloechus asper was found to be more prevalent in P. esculentus. Acanthocephalus ranae, Icosiella neglecta, Haematoloechus variegatus, Pleurogenes claviger, Pleurogenoides medians, and Prosotocus confusus were equally common in both hosts. Helminth infracommunities in the two hosts had identical species richness (1-10 species, 4 on average); abundance was significantly higher in P. ridibundus. Conclusions Helminth assemblages of the two hosts in northern Ukraine are rather similar; however, small but significant differences were found in their species composition, parameters of infection in some species, and structure of helminth infracommunities.		[Kuzmin, Yuriy; Dmytrieva, Ivanna; Marushchak, Oleksiy; Morozov-Leonov, Svyatoslav L.; Nekrasova, Oksana] NAS Ukraine, II Schmalhausen Inst Zool, 15 Bogdana Khmelnytskogo St, UA-01030 Kiev, Ukraine; [Dmytrieva, Ivanna; Oskyrko, Oleksandra] Taras Shevchenko Natl Univ Kyiv, Inst Biol & Med, Educ & Sci Ctr, 2 Akad Hlushkova Ave, UA-03022 Kiev, Ukraine; [Kuzmin, Yuriy] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management, Potchefstroom Campus,Private Bag X6001, ZA-20520 Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Kuzmin, Yuriy] NAS Ukraine, II Schmalhausen Inst Zool, 15 Bogdana Khmelnytskogo St, UA-01030 Kiev, Ukraine; [Kuzmin, Yuriy] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management, Potchefstroom Campus,Private Bag X6001, ZA-20520 Potchefstroom, South Africa								9							Parasitology; Veterinary Sciences; Zoology	WOS:000538199000008		
J	Coffey, Michael J.; Low, Ivan; Stelzer-Braid, Sacha; Wemheuer, Bernd; Garg, Millie; Thomas, Torsten; Jaffe, Adam; Rawlinson, William D.; Ooi, Chee Y.								The intestinal virome in children with cystic fibrosis differs from healthy controls								PLOS ONE				15	5					e0233557	10.1371/journal.pone.0233557			MAY 22 2020	2020	Intestinal bacterial dysbiosis is evident in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and intestinal viruses may be contributory, given their influence on bacterial species diversity and biochemical cycles. We performed a prospective, case-control study on children with CF and age and gender matched healthy controls (HC), to investigate the composition and function of intestinal viral communities. Stool samples were enriched for viral DNA and RNA by viral extraction, random amplification and purification before sequencing (Illumina MiSeq). Taxonomic assignment of viruses was performed using Vipie. Functional annotation was performed using Virsorter. Inflammation was measured by calprotectin and M2-pyruvate kinase (M2-PK). Eight CF and eight HC subjects were included (50% male, mean age 6.9 +/- 3.0 and 6.4 +/- 5.3 years, respectively, p = 0.8). All CF subjects were pancreatic insufficient. Regarding the intestinal virome, no difference in Shannon index between CF and HC was identified. Taxonomy-based beta-diversity (presence-absence Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) was significantly different between CF and HC (R-2 = 0.12, p = 0.001). Myoviridae, Faecalibacterium phage FP Taranis and unclassified Gokushovirinae were significantly decreased in CF compared with HC (q < 0.05). In children with CF (compared to HC), the relative abundance of genes annotated to (i) a peptidoglycan-binding domain of the peptidoglycan hydrolases (COG3409) was significantly increased (q< 0.05) and (ii) capsid protein (F protein) (PF02305.16) was significantly decreased (q< 0.05). Picornavirales, Picornaviridae, and Enterovirus were found to positively correlate with weight and BMI (r = 0.84, q = 0.01). Single-stranded DNA viruses negatively correlated with M2-PK (r = -0.86, q = 0.048). Children with CF have an altered intestinal virome compared to well-matched HC, with both taxonomic and predicted functional changes. Further exploration of Faecalibacterium phages, Gokushovirinae and phage lysins are warranted. Intestinal viruses and their functions may have important clinical implications for intestinal inflammation and growth in children with CF, potentially providing novel therapeutic targets.		[Coffey, Michael J.; Garg, Millie; Jaffe, Adam; Ooi, Chee Y.] Univ New South Wales, Sch Womens & Childrens Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Low, Ivan; Rawlinson, William D.] Univ New South Wales, Sch Biotechnol & Biomol Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Low, Ivan; Stelzer-Braid, Sacha; Rawlinson, William D.] Prince Wales Hosp, Virol Res Lab, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Stelzer-Braid, Sacha] Univ New South Wales, Sch Med Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Wemheuer, Bernd; Thomas, Torsten] Univ New South Wales, Ctr Marine Sci & Innovat, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Jaffe, Adam] Sydney Childrens Hosp Randwick Sydney, Dept Resp, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Jaffe, Adam; Ooi, Chee Y.] Mol & Integrat Cyst Fibrosis miCF Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ooi, Chee Y.] Sydney Childrens Hosp Randwick, Dept Gastroenterol, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ooi, Chee Y.] Univ New South Wales, Sch Womens & Childrens Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ooi, Chee Y.] Mol & Integrat Cyst Fibrosis miCF Res Ctr, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ooi, Chee Y.] Sydney Childrens Hosp Randwick, Dept Gastroenterol, Sydney, NSW, Australia								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000537525900053		
J	Capelo, Jorge								Using species abundance and phylogeny conjointly to approach vegetation classification: A case study on Macaronesia's woody vegetation								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				31	4			616	633		10.1111/jvs.12886			JUL 2020	2020	Questions Can co-occurrence and phylogenetic resemblance of taxa in plots be integrated into a single composite numerical framework so that vegetation classification expresses both in a unique system? How should phylogenetic similarity of vicariant taxa, in synvicariant communities, be dealt with for use in vegetation classifications? Is this meaningful to Vegetation Science and Biogeography? Is Macaronesia's woody vegetation an adequate paradigm to test a methodological workflow for phylogenetically informed classification? Location Macaronesia: the Azores, Madeira, Canaries, and Cape Verde archipelagos. Methods We used both (a) co-occurrence-only and (b) phylogenetic Bray-Curtis similarity indexes in straightforward classification algorithms: Ward's method clustering and isopam divisive classification. Phylogenetic distances for (b) were taken from an ad hoc phylogenetic tree. The tree was obtained by grafting/pruning subtrees from DNA sequence alignments of rcbL, ITS and matK into a subset of an available megaphylogeny. Results Co-occurrence-only similarity is not a reliable predictor of phylogenetic similarity. Two distinct approaches to similarity imply significant differences in classifications. As groups in both classifications may be equated to woody-vegetation classes, alternative arrangements of such will appear. Vegetation classes are quasi-specific to each archipelago if accounting for co-occurrence-only. Conversely, larger units spanning several archipelagos emerge when phylogeny is considered. Conclusion We recognise the usefulness of incorporating phylogeny in the definition of formal vegetation units so that the concept of syntaxon may include it. Supra-class units issuing from phylogenetically informed similarity originate, for the most, from vegetation synvicariance rather than from sharing of species. Therefore, these units correspond preferably to biogeographical concepts (phytochoria), not to phytocoenological units. Regarding "Macaronesia" being a consistent biogeographical unit, if compositional and ecological vegetation patterns are preferred, we support the separation of Macaronesia in several biomes and thus into several Regions within two Kingdoms. Contrariwise, if common ancestry of taxa and synvicariance in syntaxa is to be emphasised, then the one-Macaronesia Region model re-appears.		[Capelo, Jorge] Natl Inst Agr & Veterinarian Res, Herbarium, Ave Republ,Quinta Marques, P-2784505 Oeiras, Portugal; [Capelo, Jorge] Univ Lisbon, LEAF Res Ctr Linking Landscape Environm Agr & Foo, Lisbon, Portugal; [Capelo, Jorge] Natl Inst Agr & Veterinarian Res, Herbarium, Ave Republ,Quinta Marques, P-2784505 Oeiras, Portugal								4							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000533558700001		
J	Miftahussurur, Muhammad; Waskito, Langgeng Agung; El-Serag, Hashem B.; Ajami, Nadim J.; Nusi, Iswan Abbas; Syam, Ari Fahrial; Matsumoto, Takashi; Rezkitha, Yudith Annisa Ayu; Doohan, Dalla; Fauzia, Kartika Afrida; Maimunah, Ummi; Sugihartono, Titong; Uchida, Tomohisa; Yamaoka, Yoshio								Gastric microbiota and <i>Helicobacter pylori</i> in Indonesian population								HELICOBACTER				25	4					e12695	10.1111/hel.12695			AUG 2020	2020	Background The profile of gastric mucosal microbiota has not yet been described in the Indonesian population where the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori is low. Methods This is a cross-sectional study analyzing 16S rRNA of 137 gastric biopsy specimens. We analyzed the association between gastric microbiota, H. pylori infection, and gastric mucosal damage. Result Among 137 analyzed samples, 27 were H. pylori-positive and 110 were H. pylori -negative based on culture, histology, and 16S rRNA gene analysis. Significantly lower alpha-diversity parameters, including Pielou's index, was observed in H. pylori-infected individuals compared with noninfected individuals (all P < .001). Among H. pylori-negative individuals, the permutational analysis of variance of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity distances showed a significant association with different ethnicities, suggesting some ethnic groups had specific microbiota profiles based on the presence of different operational taxonomic units. The linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) of the H. pylori-negative group showed significant associations between the presence of Micrococcus luteus and Sphingomonas yabuuchiae with Timor and Papuan ethnicities, respectively. The presence of Bulledia sp and Atopobium sp was associated with the Javanese ethnicity. We observed lower alpha-diversity scores in individuals with gastric mucosal damage and profiles with high abundances of Paludibacter sp and Dialister sp based on LEfSe analysis. Conclusion Our findings suggest the presence of H. pylori is more correlated with a distinct microbiome profile than ethnic precedence.		[Miftahussurur, Muhammad; Nusi, Iswan Abbas; Maimunah, Ummi; Sugihartono, Titong; Yamaoka, Yoshio] Univ Airlangga, Fac Med, Dept Internal Med, Div Gastroenterohepatol, Surabaya, Indonesia; [Miftahussurur, Muhammad; Waskito, Langgeng Agung; Doohan, Dalla; Fauzia, Kartika Afrida] Univ Airlangga, Inst Trop Dis, Surabaya, Indonesia; [Waskito, Langgeng Agung; Matsumoto, Takashi; Doohan, Dalla; Fauzia, Kartika Afrida; Yamaoka, Yoshio] Oita Univ, Fac Med, Dept Environm & Prevent Med, 1-1 Idaigaoka, Yufu, Oita 8795593, Japan; [El-Serag, Hashem B.; Ajami, Nadim J.; Yamaoka, Yoshio] Baylor Coll Med, Dept Med, Gastroenterol & Hepatol Sect, Houston, TX 77030 USA; [Syam, Ari Fahrial] Univ Indonesia, Fac Med, Dept Internal Med, Div Gastroenterol, Jakarta, Indonesia; [Rezkitha, Yudith Annisa Ayu] Univ Muhammadiyah Surabaya, Fac Med, Surabaya, Indonesia; [Uchida, Tomohisa] Oita Univ, Fac Med, Dept Mol Pathol, Oita, Japan; [Yamaoka, Yoshio] Global Oita Med Adv Res Ctr Hlth, Yufu, Japan; [Yamaoka, Yoshio] Oita Univ, Fac Med, Dept Environm & Prevent Med, 1-1 Idaigaoka, Yufu, Oita 8795593, Japan; [Miftahussurur, Muhammad] Univ Airlangga, Gastroenterohepatol Div, Dept Internal Med, Fac Med,Dr Soetomo Teaching Hosp, Jalan Mayjend Prof Dr Moestopo 6-8 Surabaya, Surabaya 60131, Indonesia								21							Gastroenterology & Hepatology; Microbiology	WOS:000531594300001		
J	Yin, Yue; Xu, Yudi; Cao, Kaili; Qin, Zifang; Zhao, Xinxin; Dong, Xuehui; Shi, Wangpeng								Impact assessment of Bt maize expressing the Cry1Ab and Cry2Ab protein simultaneously on non-target arthropods								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				27	17			21552	21559		10.1007/s11356-020-08665-9			JUN 2020	2020	Transgenic maize expressing the Cry1Ab and Cry2Ab protein simultaneously from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt-maize) has been grown for farm-scale study to investigate its potential impact to non-target arthropod (NTA). The trials were conducted between Bt maize 2A-7 and its parental line (B73-329) in Beijing, China, over 3 years. Richness (C), Shannon index (H), Pielou index (J), Simpson index (D), and Bray-Curtis index were used to evaluate the population dynamics and biodiversity of the dominant arthropods from per 50 plants in crop field. The mainly abundant groups were Aphidoidea, Araneae, Coccinellidae, Anthocoridae, and Thripidae which represented about 90% of the total number of NTA. Although the abundance of NTA varied from year to year, there is no significant difference between Bt maize and non-Bt maize field. Fluctuations were found at individual sample dates, but the trend of these descriptors remained consistent. Further analysis showed the biodiversity indexes of the dominant arthropods C, H, J, D, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity between Bt maize producing Cry1Ab and Cry2Ab toxin simultaneously and its parental line had no significant difference except for some sampling dates. These results suggested that Bt maize is compatible with the NTAs and provides further evidence of the ecological impact of genetically modified maize.		[Yin, Yue; Xu, Yudi; Cao, Kaili; Qin, Zifang; Zhao, Xinxin; Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Yin, Yue; Xu, Yudi; Cao, Kaili; Qin, Zifang; Zhao, Xinxin; Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, MOA Key Lab Pest Monitoring & Green Management, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Dong, Xuehui] China Agr Univ, Dept Agr Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, MOA Key Lab Pest Monitoring & Green Management, Beijing, Peoples R China								10							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000525845600011		
J	Qian, Xubo; Liu, Yong-Xin; Ye, Xiaohong; Zheng, Wenjie; Lv, Shaoxia; Mo, Miaojun; Lin, Jinjing; Wang, Wenqin; Wang, Weihan; Zhang, Xianning; Lu, Meiping								Gut microbiota in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis: characteristics, biomarker identification, and usefulness in clinical prediction								BMC GENOMICS				21	1					286	10.1186/s12864-020-6703-0			APR 7 2020	2020	Background: Recent studies have suggested that the gut microbiota is altered in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). However, age, sex, and body mass index (BMI) were not matched in the previous studies, and the results are inconsistent. We conducted an age-, sex-, and BMI-matched cross-sectional study to characterize the gut microbiota in children with JIA, and evaluate its potential in clinical prediction. Methods: A total of 40 patients with JIA and 42 healthy controls, ranging from 1 to 16 years, were enrolled in this study. Fecal samples were collected for 16S rDNA sequencing. The data were analyzed using QIIME software and R packages. Specifically, the random forest model was used to identify biomarkers, and the receiver operating characteristic curve and the decision curve analysis were used to evaluate model performance. Results: YA total of 39 fecal samples from patients with JIA, and 42 fecal samples from healthy controls were sequenced successfully. The Chao 1 and Shannon-Wiener index in the JIA group were significantly lower than those in the control group, and the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity also differed significantly between the two groups. The relative abundance of 4 genera, Anaerostipes, Dialister, Lachnospira, and Roseburia, decreased significantly in the JIA group compared to those in the control group. The 4 genera included microbes that produce short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and were negatively correlated with some rheumatic indices. Moreover, 12 genera were identified as potential biomarkers by using the nested cross-validation function of the random forest. A random forest model constructed using these genera was able to differentiate the patients with JIA from the healthy controls, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.7975. The decision curve analysis indicated that the model had usefulness in clinical practice. Conclusions: The gut microbiota in patients with JIA is altered and characterized by a decreased abundance of 4 SCFA-producing genera. The decreases in the 4 genera correlated with more serious clinical indices. Twelve genera could be used as biomarkers and predictors in clinical practice.		[Qian, Xubo; Lu, Meiping] Zhejiang Univ, Childrens Hosp, Sch Med, Dept Rheumatol Immunol & Allergy, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yong-Xin] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Genet & Dev Biol, State Key Lab Plant Genom, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Ye, Xiaohong; Wang, Weihan] Jinhua Hosp Tradit Chinese Med, Dept Sci Res Management & Med Educ, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Wenjie] Wenzhou Med Univ, Affiliated Hosp 2, Dept Paediat Rheumatol, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Wenjie] Wenzhou Med Univ, Yuying Childrens Hosp, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Lv, Shaoxia] Jiangnan Community Healthcare Ctr, Nursing Dept, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Mo, Miaojun] Wenling Maternal & Child Healthcare Hosp, Dept Pediat, Wenling, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Lin, Jinjing] Zhejiang Univ, Shaoxing Peoples Hosp, Shaoxing Hosp, Sch Med,Dept Pediat, Shaoxing, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Wenqin] Jinhua Municipal Peoples Hosp, Dept Rheumatol Immunol, Jinhua, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xianning] Zhejiang Univ, Sch Med, Inst Genet, Inst Cell Biol,Dept Genet, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Lu, Meiping] Zhejiang Univ, Childrens Hosp, Sch Med, Dept Rheumatol Immunol & Allergy, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xianning] Zhejiang Univ, Sch Med, Inst Genet, Inst Cell Biol,Dept Genet, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								24							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Genetics & Heredity	WOS:000525519800001		
J	Reutrakul, Sirimon; So-ngern, Apichart; Chirakalwasan, Naricha; Saetung, Sunee; Chanprasertyothin, Suwannee; Thakkinstian, Ammarin; Chlipala, George E.								No changes in gut microbiota after two-week sleep extension in chronically sleep-deprived individuals								SLEEP MEDICINE				68				27	30		10.1016/j.sleep.2019.08.022			APR 2020	2020	Background: Gut microbiota has been linked to obesity and glucose metabolism. Insufficient sleep is also known to be associated with insulin resistance, and sleep extension was reported to improve glucose metabolism in short sleepers. This study aimed to explore whether sleep extension was associated with changes in gut microbiota and whether there was a relationship with glucose parameters. Methods: We performed a secondary analysis of eight short-seeping but otherwise healthy subjects who participated in a cross over study of two-week home sleep extension and two weeks of habitual sleep. After each sleep condition, stool samples were collected and glucose parameters were obtained. Stool DNA extraction was performed and 16S rRNA was sequenced by MiSeq (TM). The resulting sequence data were processed to infer relative abundances of taxa present and then analyzed to detect any differences in the abundances of the taxa or overall diversity of the microbiome. Results: Mean (SD) sleep duration during habitual sleep and sleep extension was 5.58 (0.53) and 6.60 (0.43) hours/night, respectively. Using the Bray-Curtis index, there was no significant dissimilarity of the genus-level microbial community between the two sleeping conditions (ADONIS, R-2 = 0.017, p = 0.988 and ANOSIM, R = -0.131, p = 0.991). Within-sample microbial diversity (ie, the Shannon index) also did not find significant differences (p = 0.861). There was no significant relationship between per-individual dissimilarity and objective and subjective sleep variables, or glycemic parameters. Only higher sleep efficiency was related to higher abundance of the phyla Tenericutes. Conclusion: Two-week sleep extension in short sleepers was not associated with changes in gut microbiota. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Reutrakul, Sirimon; Saetung, Sunee] Mahidol Univ, Ramathibodi Hosp, Fac Med, Div Endocrinol & Metab, Bangkok, Thailand; [Reutrakul, Sirimon] Univ Illinois, Dept Med, Div Endocrinol Diabet & Metab, 835 S Wolcott St,Suite 625E,M-C 640, Chicago, IL 60612 USA; [So-ngern, Apichart] Khon Kaen Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Div Sleep Med, Khon Kaen, Thailand; [Chirakalwasan, Naricha] Chulalongkorn Univ, Fac Med, Dept Med, Div Pulm & Crit Care Med, Bangkok, Thailand; [Chirakalwasan, Naricha] King Chulalongkorn Mem Hosp, Thai Red Cross Soc, Excellence Ctr Sleep Disorders, Bangkok, Thailand; [Chanprasertyothin, Suwannee] Mahidol Univ, Ramathibodi Hosp, Fac Med, Res Ctr, Bangkok, Thailand; [Thakkinstian, Ammarin] Mahidol Univ, Ramathibodi Hosp, Fac Med, Sect Clin Epidemiol & Biostat, Bangkok, Thailand; [Chlipala, George E.] Univ Illinois, Res Resources Ctr, Res Informat Core, Chicago, IL USA; [Reutrakul, Sirimon] Univ Illinois, Dept Med, Div Endocrinol Diabet & Metab, 835 S Wolcott St,Suite 625E,M-C 640, Chicago, IL 60612 USA								10							Clinical Neurology	WOS:000524995200007		
J	Bartha, Sandor; Canullo, Roberto; Chelli, Stefano; Campetella, Giandiego								Unimodal Relationships of Understory Alpha and Beta Diversity along Chronosequence in Coppiced and Unmanaged Beech Forests								DIVERSITY-BASEL				12	3					101	10.3390/d12030101			MAR 2020	2020	Patterns of diversity across spatial scales in forest successions are being overlooked, despite their importance for developing sustainable management practices. Here, we tested the recently proposed U-shaped biodiversity model of forest succession. A chronosequence of 11 stands spanning from 5 to 400 years since the last disturbance was used. Understory species presence was recorded along 200 m long transects of 20 x 20 cm quadrates. Alpha diversity (species richness, Shannon and Simpson diversity indices) and three types of beta diversity indices were assessed at multiple scales. Beta diversity was expressed by a) spatial compositional variability (number and diversity of species combinations), b) pairwise spatial turnover (between plots Sorensen, Jaccard, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), and c) spatial variability coefficients (CV% of alpha diversity measures). Our results supported the U-shaped model for both alpha and beta diversity. The strongest differences appeared between active and abandoned coppices. The maximum beta diversity emerged at characteristic scales of 2 m in young coppices and 10 m in later successional stages. We conclude that traditional coppice management maintains high structural diversity and heterogeneity in the understory. The similarly high beta diversities in active coppices and old-growth forests suggest the presence of microhabitats for specialist species of high conservation value.		[Bartha, Sandor] Ctr Ecol Res, GINOP Sustainable Ecosyst Grp, H-8237 Tihany, Hungary; [Bartha, Sandor] Ctr Ecol Res, Inst Ecol & Bot, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary; [Canullo, Roberto; Chelli, Stefano; Campetella, Giandiego] Univ Camerino, Sch Biosci & Vet Med, Plant Divers & Ecosyst Management Unit, I-62032 Mc Camerino, Italy; [Bartha, Sandor] Ctr Ecol Res, GINOP Sustainable Ecosyst Grp, H-8237 Tihany, Hungary; [Bartha, Sandor] Ctr Ecol Res, Inst Ecol & Bot, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary								10							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000524229800004		
J	Ricotta, Carlo; Laroche, Fabien; Szeidl, Laszlo; Pavoine, Sandrine								From alpha to beta functional and phylogenetic redundancy								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11	4			487	493		10.1111/2041-210X.13353			APR 2020	2020	Plot-level redundancy or alpha redundancy is usually defined as the fraction of species diversity not expressed by functional or phylogenetic diversity. Redundancy is zero when all species in one plot are maximally dissimilar from each other. In contrast, redundancy tends to its maximum if the functional or phylogenetic differences between species tend to be minimal. To explore the ecological drivers of community assembly, ecologists also use dissimilarity measures between pairs of plots (a component of beta diversity). Traditional dissimilarity measures summarize compositional differences between pairs of plots based either on species presence and absence data or on species abundances, thus attributing equal distinctiveness between any two species. In the last decades a number of dissimilarity measures which incorporate information on functional or phylogenetic differences among species have been proposed. On the basis of such improved measures, we can define an index of beta redundancy for a pair of plots as the fraction of species dissimilarity not expressed by functional or phylogenetic dissimilarity. A necessary condition to get a meaningful index of beta redundancy is that for a given pair of plots, the functional or phylogenetic dissimilarity is always lower or equal to the corresponding species dissimilarity. However, many of the existing indices of functional or phylogenetic dissimilarity can lead to values greater than for species dissimilarity. The aim of this paper was thus to introduce a new family of tree-based measures of phylogenetic and functional dissimilarity that conform to this requirement. To show the behaviour of the proposed measures, a worked example with data on Alpine vegetation is used.		[Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Rome, Italy; [Laroche, Fabien] Irstea, UR EFNO, Nogent Sur Vernisson, France; [Szeidl, Laszlo] Obuda Univ, John von Neumann Fac Informat, Budapest, Hungary; [Pavoine, Sandrine] Sorbonne Univ, Ctr Ecol & Sci Conservat CESCO, Museum Natl Hist Nat, CNRS, Paris, France; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Rome, Italy								15							Ecology	WOS:000515562200001		
J	Morozova, O., V; Zhmylev, P. Yu								Taxonomic differentiation and functional homogenization of flora in the middle part of European Russia as a result of naturalization of alien species								VESTNIK OF SAINT PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY EARTH SCIENCES				65	2			284	302		10.21638/spbu07.2020.204			2020	2020	Biological invasions triggered by human activity cause large-scale changes in the distribution of organisms, one of the consequences of which is biotic homogenization, revealed in varying ratios for different biotic groups. So far, there are not so many studies assessing the extent of this phenomenon for large areas. For the regions of the middle part of European Russia (ER), changes in the taxonomic and functional diversity of regional flora were analyzed, taking into account naturalized alien species. The Bray-Curtis index was used to quantify the changes in both taxonomic and functional dissimilarity in flora. As a measure of homogenization/differentiation, we used the difference in similarity indices calculated for regional floras with the participation of naturalized species and only for indigenous ones. The functional diversity of flora is assessed by the type of species belonging to groups of life forms. Naturalized species increase the taxonomic diversity and differences of regional floras, which can be explained by differentiated naturalization depending on the climate. The differentiating effect weakens with increasing distance between the regions. However, an increase in the taxonomic difference of flora is accompanied by functional homogenization, which consists in increasing the proportions of annual/biennial and woody species and reducing the proportion of herbaceous perennials. Changes in taxonomic and functional similarities are interrelated, but proceed at different rates as a result of differences in the leading factors explaining the changes in these categories. Taxonomic diversity is determined by climate to a greater extent than functional diversity; while the ratio of life forms in the structure of flora is mainly associated with the diversity of habitats. Among the groups of biomorphs, annual/biennial species have the greatest homogenizing effect, and an increase in their share contributes not only to functional, but also to taxonomic homogenization.		[Morozova, O., V] Russian Acad Sci, Inst Geog, 29 Staromonetniy Per, Moscow 119017, Russia; [Zhmylev, P. Yu] Lomonosov Moscow State Univ, 1 Leninskie Gory, Moscow 119991, Russia; [Morozova, O., V] Russian Acad Sci, Inst Geog, 29 Staromonetniy Per, Moscow 119017, Russia								2							Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000571002400004		
J	Longo, Larisse; Ferrari, Jessica Tonin; Rampelotto, Pabulo Henrique; Dellavia, Gustavo Hirata; Pasqualotto, Amanda; Oliveira, Claudia P.; Schmidt Cerski, Carlos Thadeu; da Silveira, Themis Reverbel; Uribe-Cruz, Carolina; Alvares-da-Silva, Mario Reis								Gut Dysbiosis and Increased Intestinal Permeability Drive microRNAs, NLRP-3 Inflammasome and Liver Fibrosis in a Nutritional Model of Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis in Adult Male Sprague Dawley Rats								CLINICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL GASTROENTEROLOGY				13				351	368		10.2147/CEG.S262879			2020	2020	Background/Aim: The interactions between the gut and liver have been described in the progression of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The aim of this study was to develop an experimental nutritional model of NASH simulating metabolic changes occurring in humans. Materials and Methods: Adult male Sprague Dawley rats were randomized into two groups: controls (standard diet) and intervention (high-fat and choline-deficient diet) for 16 weeks, each experimental group with 10 animals. Biochemical analysis, hepatic lipid content, microRNAs, inflammatory, gut permeability markers and gut microbiota were measured. Results: Animals in the intervention group showed significantly higher delta Lee index (p=0.017), abdominal circumference (p<0.001), abdominal adipose tissue (p<0.001) and fresh liver weight (p<0.001), as well as higher serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (p=0.010), glucose (p=0.013), total cholesterol (p=0.033), LDL cholesterol (p=0.011), and triglycerides (p=0.011), and lower HDL cholesterol (p=0.006) compared to the control group. Higher TLR4 (p=0.041), TLR9 (p=0.033), MyD88 (p=0.001), Casp1 (p<0.001), NLPR3 (p=0.019), liver inflammation index interleukin (IL)-1 beta/IL10 (p<0.001), IL6/IL10 (p=0.002) and TNFa/IL10 (p=0.001) were observed in the intervention group, and also lower permeability markers Ocln (p=0.003) and F11r (p=0.041). Gene expression of miR-122 increased (p=0.041) and miR-145 (p=0.010) decreased in the intervention group. Liver steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis, along with collagen fiber deposition increment (p<0.001), were seen in the intervention group. Regarding gut microbiota, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and number of operational taxonomic units were significantly different (p<0.001) between the groups. Composition of the gut microbiota showed a significant correlation with histopathological score of NAFLD (r=0.694) and index IL-1 beta/IL-10 (r=0.522). Conclusion: This experimental model mimicking human NASH demonstrated gut and liver interaction, with gut microbiota and intestinal permeability changes occurring in parallel with systemic and liver inflammation, miRNAs regulation and liver tissue damage.		[Longo, Larisse; Schmidt Cerski, Carlos Thadeu; Uribe-Cruz, Carolina; Alvares-da-Silva, Mario Reis] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Grad Program Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Longo, Larisse; Ferrari, Jessica Tonin; Rampelotto, Pabulo Henrique; Pasqualotto, Amanda; da Silveira, Themis Reverbel; Uribe-Cruz, Carolina; Alvares-da-Silva, Mario Reis] Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Ctr Expt Res, Expt Lab Hepatol & Gastroenterol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Rampelotto, Pabulo Henrique] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Grad Program Pharmaceut Sci, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Dellavia, Gustavo Hirata; Schmidt Cerski, Carlos Thadeu; Alvares-da-Silva, Mario Reis] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Sch Med, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Oliveira, Claudia P.] Univ Sao Paulo, Fac Med, Dept Gastroenterol LIM07, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Schmidt Cerski, Carlos Thadeu] Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Unit Surg Pathol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Alvares-da-Silva, Mario Reis] Hosp Clin Porto Alegre, Div Gastroenterol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Longo, Larisse] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Grad Program Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								22							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000571554500001		
J	Plummer, Erica L.; Vodstrcil, Lenka A.; Fairley, Christopher K.; Tabrizi, Sepehr N.; Garland, Suzanne M.; Law, Matthew G.; Hocking, Jane S.; Fethers, Katherine A.; Bulach, Dieter M.; Murray, Gerald L.; Bradshaw, Catriona S.								Sexual practices have a significant impact on the vaginal microbiota of women who have sex with women								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				9						19749	10.1038/s41598-019-55929-7			DEC 24 2019	2019	Women-who-have-sex-with-women (WSW) are at increased risk of bacterial vaginosis (BV). We investigated the impact of practices and past BV on the vaginal microbiota within a two-year longitudinal cohort of Australian WSW. Self-collected vaginal swabs were used to characterise the vaginal microbiota using 16S-rRNA gene sequencing. Hierarchical clustering defined community state types (CSTs). Bacterial diversity was calculated using the Shannon diversity index and instability of the vaginal microbiota was assessed by change of CST and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. Sex with a new partner increased the bacterial diversity (adjusted-coefficient = 0.41, 95%CI: 0.21,0.60, p < 0.001) and instability of the vaginal microbiota, in terms of both change of CST (adjusted-odds-ratio = 2.65, 95%CI: 1.34,5.22, p = 0.005) and increased Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (adjusted-coefficient = 0.21, 95%CI: 0.11,0.31, p < 0.001). Women reporting sex with a new partner were more likely than women reporting no new partner to have a vaginal microbiota characterised by Gardnerella vaginalis (adjusted-relative-risk-ratio[aRRR] = 3.45, 95%CI: 1.42,8.41, p = 0.006) or anaerobic BV-associated bacteria (aRRR = 3.62, 95%CI: 1.43,9.14, p = 0.007) relative to a Lactobacillus crispatus dominated microbiota. Sex with a new partner altered the vaginal microbiota of WSW by increasing the diversity and abundance of BV-associated bacteria. These findings highlight the influence of practices on the development of a non-optimal vaginal microbiota and provide microbiological support for the sexual exchange of bacteria between women.		[Plummer, Erica L.; Vodstrcil, Lenka A.; Fairley, Christopher K.; Bradshaw, Catriona S.] Monash Univ, Alfred Ctr, Cent Clin Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Plummer, Erica L.; Vodstrcil, Lenka A.; Fairley, Christopher K.; Fethers, Katherine A.; Bradshaw, Catriona S.] Alfred Hlth, Melbourne Sexual Hlth Ctr, Carlton, Vic, Australia; [Tabrizi, Sepehr N.; Garland, Suzanne M.; Murray, Gerald L.] Royal Womens Hosp, Womens Ctr Infect Dis, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Tabrizi, Sepehr N.; Garland, Suzanne M.; Murray, Gerald L.] Murdoch Childrens Res Inst, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Tabrizi, Sepehr N.; Garland, Suzanne M.; Murray, Gerald L.] Univ Melbourne, Dept Obstet & Gynaecol, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Law, Matthew G.] UNSW Australia, Kirby Inst, Kensington, NSW, Australia; [Hocking, Jane S.; Bradshaw, Catriona S.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Sch Populat & Global Hlth, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Bulach, Dieter M.] Univ Melbourne, Peter Doherty Inst Infect & Immun, Microbiol Diagnost Unit Publ Hlth Lab, Parkville, Vic, Australia; [Bulach, Dieter M.] Univ Melbourne, Melbourne Bioinformat, Carlton, Vic, Australia; [Plummer, Erica L.] Monash Univ, Alfred Ctr, Cent Clin Sch, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Plummer, Erica L.] Alfred Hlth, Melbourne Sexual Hlth Ctr, Carlton, Vic, Australia								19							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000508915300020		
J	Zou, Yi; Axmacher, Jan Christoph								The Chord-Normalized Expected Species Shared (CNESS)-distance represents a superior measure of species turnover patterns								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11	2			273	280		10.1111/2041-210X.13333			FEB 2020	2020	Measures of beta-diversity characterizing the difference in species composition between samples are commonly used in ecological studies. Nonetheless, commonly used dissimilarity measures require high sample completeness, or at least similar sample sizes between samples. In contrast, the Chord-Normalized Expected Species Shared (CNESS) dissimilarity measure calculates the probability of collecting the same set of species in random samples of a standardized size, and hence is not sensitive to completeness or size of compared samples. To date, this index has enjoyed limited use due to difficulties in its calculation and scarcity of studies systematically comparing it with other measures. Here, we developed a novel R function that enables users to calculate ESS (Expected Species Shared)-associated measures. We evaluated the performance of the CNESS index based on simulated datasets of known species distribution structure, and compared CNESS with more widespread dissimilarity measures (Bray-Curtis index, Chao-Sorensen index, and proportionality-based Euclidean distances) for varying sample completeness and sample sizes. Simulation results indicated that for small sample size (m) values, CNESS chiefly reflects similarities in dominant species, while selecting large m values emphasizes differences in the overall species assemblages. Permutation tests revealed that CNESS has a consistently low CV (coefficient of variation) even where sample completeness varies, while the Chao-Sorensen index has a high CV particularly for low sampling completeness. CNESS distances are also more robust than other indices with regards to undersampling, particularly when chiefly rare species are shared between two assemblages. Our results emphasize the superiority of CNESS for comparisons of samples diverging in sample completeness and size, which is particularly important in studies of highly mobile and species-rich taxa where sample completeness is often low. Via changes in the sample size parameter m, CNESS furthermore cannot only provide insights into the similarity of the overall distribution structure of shared species, but also into the differences in dominant and rare species, hence allowing additional, valuable insights beyond the capability of more widespread measures.		[Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Axmacher, Jan Christoph] UCL, Dept Geog, London, England; [Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China								11							Ecology	WOS:000502461700001		
J	Feret, Jean-Baptiste; de Boissieu, Florian								biodivMapR: An r package for α- and β-diversity mapping using remotely sensed images								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11	1			64	70		10.1111/2041-210X.13310			JAN 2020	2020	The accelerated erosion of biodiversity is a critical environmental challenge. Operational methods for the monitoring of biodiversity taking advantage of remotely sensed data are needed in order to provide information to ecologists and decision-makers. We present an R package designed to compute a selection of alpha- and beta-diversity indicators from optical imagery, based on spectral variation hypothesis. This package builds upon previous work on biodiversity mapping using airborne imaging spectroscopy, and has been adapted in order to process broader range of data sources, including Sentinel-2 satellite images. biodivMapR is able to produce alpha-diversity maps including Shannon and Simpson indices, as well as beta-diversity maps derived from Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. It is able to process large images efficiently with moderate computational requirements on a personal computer. Additional functions allow computing diversity indicators directly from field plots defined as polygon shapefiles for easy comparison with ground data and validation. The package biodivMapR should contribute to improved standards for biodiversity mapping using remotely sensed data. It should also contribute to the identification of relevant Remotely Sensed enabled Essential Biodiversity Variables.		[Feret, Jean-Baptiste; de Boissieu, Florian] Univ Montpellier, CNRS, CIRAD, TETIS,Irstea, Montpellier, France; [Feret, Jean-Baptiste] Univ Montpellier, CNRS, CIRAD, TETIS,Irstea, Montpellier, France								30							Ecology	WOS:000491836100001		
J	Martyniuk, Nicolas; Modenutti, Beatriz; Balseiro, Esteban G.								Seasonal variability in glacial influence affects macroinvertebrate assemblages in North-Andean Patagonian glacier-fed streams								INLAND WATERS				9	4			522	533		10.1080/20442041.2019.1624115			OCT 2 2019	2019	Macroinvertebrate communities of glacial streams are affected by melting mountain glaciers, which in turn are influenced by landscape and local and global climate change. We analyzed macroinvertebrate communities in 2 North-Andean Patagonian glacier-fed streams. The significant difference in glacial influence between the 2 streams was due to differences in glacier flow velocity and to the presence of a proglacial lake in one of the streams. Our main aim was to analyze whether temporal variations in physical and chemical parameters of meltwater produced shifts in macroinvertebrate taxon richness and community composition. We applied the glaciality index (GI) to consider the combined effect of suspended solids, water temperature, conductivity, and streambed stability. On each stream we established one sampling station; we sampled during the melting season (spring-summer) of 3 consecutive years on 12 occasions. Macroinvertebrate taxon richness, diversity, and evenness increased as glacial influence decreased. Scrapers were the dominant functional feeding group in the stream with the lower glacial influence while detritivores-gathers dominated under high glacial influence. We further analyzed how temporal changes in the GI affected compositional differences among communities using Bray-Curtis dissimilarities. Under a stable GI, communities showed no substantial compositional changes (low Bray-Curtis), whereas under change in glacial influence (Delta GI not equal 0) the communities decreased in similarity.		[Martyniuk, Nicolas; Modenutti, Beatriz; Balseiro, Esteban G.] Univ Nacl Comahue, Lab Limnol, INIBIOMA, CONICET, San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina; [Martyniuk, Nicolas] Univ Nacl Comahue, Lab Limnol, INIBIOMA, CONICET, San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina								5							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000498061700010		
J	Liberati, Loic; Messerli, Swanee; Matteodo, Magali; Vittoz, Pascal								Contrasting impacts of climate change on the vegetation of windy ridges and snowbeds in the Swiss Alps								ALPINE BOTANY				129	2			95	105		10.1007/s00035-019-00223-5			OCT 2019	2019	The impacts of climate change on alpine summit floras have been widely investigated. However, only few studies included alpine grasslands and generally concluded that snowbeds, with a long snow cover duration and a short growing season, and windy ridges, with a short snow cover duration and strong winter frosts, are the most sensitive alpine grasslands. However, these habitats were mostly investigated in different regions, where local factors (e.g. nitrogen deposition, grazing) can co-vary with climate changes, potentially obscuring differences between habitats. Here, we focused on the Zermatt region (Swiss Alps) to investigate the impacts of climate change on snowbeds and windy ridges. Forty-three exhaustive historical plant inventories on windy ridges (acidophilic or basophilic) and 31 inventories in snowbeds (typical or wet) were repeated in quasi-permanent plots after approximately 23 years. Historical and recent records were compared with the Simpson index, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, a PCA, ecological indicator values and the frequency and cover changes of species. There was a general increase in alpha-diversity and a decrease in beta-diversity (homogenisation). Most of the new species in the plots were generalists from surrounding grasslands. The plant composition tended to be more thermophilous on acidophilic windy ridges and in typical snowbeds. The flora of acidophilic windy ridges became more similar to that of basophilic windy ridges and more eutrophic. We interpreted this as possibly arising from fertilisation by the aeolian dust deposition coming from the expanding glacial moraine in the valley. In snowbeds, the species indicated increasingly drier conditions, especially in wet snowbeds. Warming climate induces lower snowfall and earlier snowmelt, leading to a shorter snow cover duration. Hence, wet snowbeds are certainly among the most threatened plant communities by climate change in the Alps.		[Liberati, Loic; Messerli, Swanee; Matteodo, Magali; Vittoz, Pascal] Univ Lausanne, Fac Geosci & Environm, Inst Earth Surface Dynam, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Liberati, Loic] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Inst Integrat Biol, Dept Environm Syst Sci, Bldg CHN,Univ Str 16, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland; [Messerli, Swanee] Route Esserts 61,1854 Leysin, CH-1854 Leysin, Switzerland; [Matteodo, Magali] Chemin Bonne Esperance 28, CH-1006 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Vittoz, Pascal] Univ Lausanne, Fac Geosci & Environm, Inst Earth Surface Dynam, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland								15							Plant Sciences	WOS:000488930900003		
J	Horan, Martin P.; Hoffmann, Peter; Briggs, Matthew T.; Condina, Mark; Herbert, Shane; Ito, Jason; Rodger, Alison; McKay, Matthew; Maltby, David; Crossett, Ben; Abudulai, Laila N.; Clarke, Michael W.; Badrick, Tony								An external quality assurance trial to assess mass spectrometry protein testing facilities for identifying multiple human peptides								ANALYTICAL AND BIOANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY				411	25			6575	6581		10.1007/s00216-019-02047-y			OCT 2019	2019	The application of proteomic liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) for identifying proteins and peptides associated with human disease is rapidly growing in clinical diagnostics. However, the ability to accurately and consistently detect disease-associated peptides remains clinically uncertain. Variability in diagnostic testing occurs in part due to the absence of appropriate reference testing materials and standardised clinical guidelines for proteomic testing. In addition, multiple proteomic testing pipelines have not been fully assessed through external quality assurance (EQA). This trial was therefore devised to evaluate the performance of a small number of mass spectrometry (MS) testing facilities to (i) evaluate the EQA material for potential usage in a proteomic quality assurance program, and to (ii) identify key problem areas associated with human peptide testing. Five laboratories were sent six peptide reference testing samples formulated to contain a total of 35 peptides in differing ratios of light (natural) to heavy (labelled) peptides. Proficiency assessment of laboratory data used a modified approach to similarity and dissimilarity testing that was based on Bray-Curtis and Sorensen indices. Proficiency EQA concordant consensus values could not be derived from the assessed data since none of the laboratories correctly identified all reference testing peptides in all samples. However, the produced data may be reflective of specific inter-laboratory differences for detecting multiple peptides since no two testing pipelines used were the same for any laboratory. In addition, laboratory feedback indicated that peptide filtering of the reference material was a common key problem area prior to analysis. These data highlight the importance of an EQA programme for identifying underlying testing issues so that improvements can be made and confidence for clinical diagnostic analysis can be attained.		[Horan, Martin P.; Badrick, Tony] Royal Coll Pathologists Australasia Qual Assuranc, Mol Genet, 8 Herbert St, Sydney, NSW 2065, Australia; [Hoffmann, Peter; Briggs, Matthew T.; Condina, Mark] Univ South Australia, Future Ind Inst, Mawson Lakes Campus,GPO Box 2471, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia; [Herbert, Shane; Ito, Jason] Prote Int Pty Ltd, QEII Med Ctr, 6 Verdun St, Perth, WA 6009, Australia; [Rodger, Alison; McKay, Matthew] Macquarie Univ, Australian Proteome Anal Facil, Dept Mol Sci, 4 Wallys Walk, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia; [Maltby, David; Crossett, Ben] Univ Sydney, Sydney Mass Spectrometry, Camperdown, NSW 2006, Australia; [Abudulai, Laila N.; Clarke, Michael W.] Univ Western Australia, Metabol Australia, Ctr Microscopy Characterisat & Anal, Perth, WA 6009, Australia; [Abudulai, Laila N.; Clarke, Michael W.] Univ Western Australia, Sch Mol Sci, 35 Stirling Highway, Perth, WA 6009, Australia; [Horan, Martin P.] Royal Coll Pathologists Australasia Qual Assuranc, Mol Genet, 8 Herbert St, Sydney, NSW 2065, Australia								1							Biochemical Research Methods; Chemistry, Analytical	WOS:000486030400008		
J	Quintela-Baluja, Marcos; Abouelnaga, M.; Romalde, Jesus; Su, Jian-Qiang; Yu, Yongjie; Gomez-Lopez, Mariano; Smets, Barth; Zhu, Yong-Guan; Graham, David W.								Spatial ecology of a wastewater network defines the antibiotic resistance genes in downstream receiving waters								WATER RESEARCH				162				347	357		10.1016/j.watres.2019.06.075			OCT 1 2019	2019	Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are an effective barrier in the protection of human and environment health around the world, although WWTPs also are suggested to be selectors and-or reservoirs of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) before entering the environment. The dogma about WWTPs as "ARG selectors" presumes that biotreatment compartments (e.g., activated sludge; AS) are single densely populated ecosystems with elevated horizontal gene transfer. However, recent work has suggested WWTP biotreatment compartments may be different than previously believed relative to antibiotic resistance (AR) fate, and other process factors, such as bacterial separation and specific waste sources, may be key to ARGs released to the environment. Here we combined 16S rRNA metagenomic sequencing and high-throughput qPCR to characterise microbial communities and ARGs across a wastewater network in Spain that includes both community (i.e., non-clinical urban) and hospital sources. Contrary to expectations, ARGs found in downstream receiving waters were not dominated by AS biosolids (RAS), but more resembled raw wastewater sources. In fact, ARGs and microbial communities in liquid-phase WWTP effluents and RAS were significantly different (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index = 0.66 +/- 0.11), with a consequential fraction of influent ARGs and organisms passing directly through the WWTP with limited association with RAS. Instead, ARGs and organisms in the RAS may be more defined by biosolids separation and biophysical traits, such as flocculation, rather than ARG carriage. This explains why RAS has significantly lower ARG richness (47 +/- 4 ARGs) than liquid-phase effluents (104 +/- 5 ARGs), and downstream water column (135 +/- 4 ARGs) and river sediments (120 +/- 5 ARGs) (Tukey's test, p < 0.001). These data suggest RAS and liquid-phase WWTP effluents may reflect two parallel ecosystems with potentially limited ARG exchange. As such, ARG mitigation in WWTPs should more focus on removing bacterial hosts from the liquid phase, AR source reduction, and possibly disinfection to reduce ARG releases to the environment. (C) 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Quintela-Baluja, Marcos; Yu, Yongjie; Graham, David W.] Newcastle Univ, Sch Engn, Cassie Bldg, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, Tyne & Wear, England; [Abouelnaga, M.] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Sch Vet Sci, Dept Analyt Chem Nutr & Food Sci, Lugo, Spain; [Romalde, Jesus] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Dept Microbiol & Parasitol, Santiago De Compostela, Spain; [Su, Jian-Qiang; Zhu, Yong-Guan] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Urban Environm, Key Lab Urban Environm & Hlth, Xiamen, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Gomez-Lopez, Mariano] Labaqua, Santiago De Compostela, Spain; [Smets, Barth] Tech Univ Denmark, Dept Environm Engn, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark; [Zhu, Yong-Guan] Chinese Acad Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Graham, David W.] Newcastle Univ, Sch Engn, Cassie Bldg, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, Tyne & Wear, England								88							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000479023000034		
J	Horak, David; Ferenc, Michal; Sedlacek, Ondrej; Motombi, Francis Njie; Svoboda, Miroslav; Altman, Jan; Albrecht, Tomas; Nana, Eric Djomo; Janecek, Stepan; Dancak, Martin; Majesky, Lubos; Lltonga, Elias Ndive; Dolezal, Jiri								Forest structure determines spatial changes in avian communities along an elevational gradient in tropical Africa								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				46	11			2466	2478		10.1111/jbi.13688			NOV 2019	2019	Aim To test if tree species richness and forest structure drive spatial variation in avian communities along a tropical elevation gradient and to present information about the role of detailed forest parameters. Location A 2,000-m long elevational gradient of tropical forest on Mt. Cameroon, west-central Africa. Taxon Birds and trees. Methods We performed bird censuses and vegetation mapping at the same plots across six forested sites at elevations of 350, 650, 1,100, 1,500, 1,850, and 2,200 m a.s.l., with 16 plots per elevation. We tested the effects of elevation, forest structure and tree diversity on the species richness, functional diversity and beta-diversity of birds (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity). We used conditional inference trees based on random forests (RF) to investigate these relationships across all elevation sites as well as within elevations. Results Both tree and bird species richness declined monotonically with elevation. Vegetation structure correlated with elevation, and all vegetation attributes significantly differed among elevations. The RF explained 70% of the variance in avian species richness, with the most important predictors being elevation, proportion of dead trees, tree species richness and herb layer coverage. We found that elevation (and shrub layer) was a particularly important predictor of avian functional diversity. We identified no important predictor of bird species richness after standardization within elevations, and the proportion of dead trees was the sole important predictor of functional diversity. Within-elevation beta-diversity in avian community composition was determined by the dissimilarity of the tree community and differences in leaf area index, solar radiation and spatial distance. The functional dissimilarity was best explained by leaf area index. Main conclusions Apart from elevation itself, spatial distance even within elevations correlated with compositional and functional variation among avian assemblages. Forest structural traits can have a significant influence on distribution of birds. Thus, gaps in the spatial distribution of species such as along elevations might be caused by fine-scale recognition of suitable habitats.		[Horak, David; Ferenc, Michal; Sedlacek, Ondrej; Nana, Eric Djomo; Janecek, Stepan] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Ecol, Fac Sci, Vinicna 7, CZ-12844 Prague, Czech Republic; [Motombi, Francis Njie] Mt Cameroon NP, Buea, Cameroon; [Svoboda, Miroslav] Czech Univ Life Sci, Fac Forestry & Wood Sci, Dept Forest Ecol, Prague, Czech Republic; [Altman, Jan; Janecek, Stepan; Dolezal, Jiri] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Bot, Pruhonice, Czech Republic; [Albrecht, Tomas] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Vertebrate Biol, Brno, Czech Republic; [Albrecht, Tomas] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Zool, Fac Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Nana, Eric Djomo] Congo Basin Inst, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Nana, Eric Djomo] Inst Agr Res Dev IRAD, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Dancak, Martin] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Fac Sci, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Majesky, Lubos] Palacky Univ Olomouc, Dept Bot, Fac Sci, Olomouc, Czech Republic; [Lltonga, Elias Ndive] Limbe Bot Garden, Limbe, Cameroon; [Dolezal, Jiri] Univ South Bohemia, Fac Sci, Dept Bot, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Horak, David] Charles Univ Prague, Dept Ecol, Fac Sci, Vinicna 7, CZ-12844 Prague, Czech Republic								18							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000486535800001		
J	Lappan, Rachael; Classon, Cajsa; Kumar, Shashi; Singh, Om Prakash; de Almeida, Ricardo V.; Chakravarty, Jaya; Kumari, Poonam; Kansal, Sangeeta; Sundar, Shyam; Blackwell, Jenefer M.								Meta-taxonomic analysis of prokaryotic and eukaryotic gut flora in stool samples from visceral leishmaniasis cases and endemic controls in Bihar State India; Meta-taxonomic Analysis of Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Gut Flora in Stool Samples from Visceral Leishmaniasis Cases and Endemic Controls in Bihar State India								PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES; PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES				13	9					e0007444	10.1371/journal.pntd.0007444			SEP 2019	2019	Author summary Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala-azar, is a potentially fatal disease caused by intracellular parasites of the Leishmania donovani complex. VL is a serious public health problem in rural India, causing high morbidity and mortality, as well as major costs to local and national health budgets. People at risk of VL are also at risk of other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) including soil transmitted helminths (worms). Intestinal worms are potent regulators of host immune responses often mediated through cross-talk with gut bacteria. Here we have used a modern DNA sequencing approach to determine the composition of microbiota in stool samples from VL cases and endemic controls. This allows us to determine all bacteria, as well as all single-celled and multicellular organisms, that comprise the microorganisms in the gut in a single sequencing experiment from a single stool sample. In addition to providing valuable information concerning commensal and pathogenic gut micro-organisms prevalent in this region of India, we find some specific associations between single-celled gut pathogens and VL case status. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania donovani remains of public health concern in rural India. Those at risk of VL are also at risk of other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) including soil transmitted helminths. Intestinal helminths are potent regulators of host immune responses sometimes mediated through cross-talk with gut microbiota. We evaluate a meta-taxonomic approach to determine the composition of prokaryotic and eukaryotic gut microflora using amplicon-based sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) and 18S rRNA gene regions. The most abundant bacterial taxa identified in faecal samples from Bihar State India were Prevotella (37.1%), Faecalibacterium (11.3%), Escherichia-Shigella (9.1%), Alloprevotella (4.5%), Bacteroides (4.1%), Ruminococcaceae UCG-002 (1.6%), and Bifidobacterium (1.5%). Eukaryotic taxa identified (excluding plant genera) included Blastocystis (57.9%; Order: Stramenopiles), Dientamoeba (12.1%; Family: Tritrichomonadea), Pentatrichomonas (10.1%; Family: Trichomonodea), Entamoeba (3.5%; Family: Entamoebida), Ascaridida (0.8%; Family: Chromodorea; concordant with Ascaris by microscopy), Rhabditida (0.8%; Family: Chromodorea; concordant with Strongyloides), and Cyclophyllidea (0.2%; Order: Eucestoda; concordant with Hymenolepis). Overall alpha (Shannon's, Faith's and Pielou's indices) and beta (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity statistic; weighted UniFrac distances) diversity of taxa did not differ significantly by age, sex, geographic subdistrict, or VL case (N = 23) versus endemic control (EC; N = 23) status. However, taxon-specific associations occurred: (i) Ruminococcaceae UCG- 014 and Gastranaerophilales_uncultured bacterium were enriched in EC compared to VL cases; (ii) Pentatrichomonas was more abundant in VL cases than in EC, whereas the reverse occurred for Entamoeba. Across the cohort, high Escherichia-Shigella was associated with reduced bacterial diversity, while high Blastocystis was associated with high bacterial diversity and low Escherichia-Shigella. Individuals with high Blastocystis had low Bacteroidaceae and high Clostridiales vadin BB60 whereas the reverse held true for low Blastocystis. This scoping study provides useful baseline data upon which to develop a broader analysis of pathogenic enteric microflora and their influence on gut microbial health and NTDs generally.		[Lappan, Rachael; Blackwell, Jenefer M.] Univ Western Australia, Telethon Kids Inst, Nedlands, WA, Australia; [Classon, Cajsa] Karolinska Inst, Dept Microbiol Tumor & Cell Biol, Solna, Sweden; [Kumar, Shashi; Singh, Om Prakash; Chakravarty, Jaya; Kumari, Poonam; Kansal, Sangeeta; Sundar, Shyam] Banaras Hindu Univ, Inst Med Sci, Dept Med, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India; [de Almeida, Ricardo V.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Bioquim, Ctr Biociencias, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Blackwell, Jenefer M.] Univ Cambridge, Dept Pathol, Cambridge, England; [Blackwell, Jenefer M.] Univ Western Australia, Telethon Kids Inst, Nedlands, WA, Australia; [Blackwell, Jenefer M.] Univ Cambridge, Dept Pathol, Cambridge, England								31							Infectious Diseases; Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000490987100010		
J	Gillett, David J.; Mazor, Raphael D.; Norton, Susan B.								Selecting comparator sites for ecological causal assessment based on expected biological similarity								FRESHWATER SCIENCE				38	3			554	565		10.1086/704926			SEP 1 2019	2019	Streams and other waterbodies in poor ecological condition often require causal assessment to determine appropriate follow-up actions. However, site-specific causal assessments can be time consuming. To streamline the process, we describe a quantitative method that expedites a key component of causal assessment: identifying a group of ecologically similar (comparator) sites with which to compare and contrast biological condition and stressor exposure at the site of interest. A good set of comparator sites should: 1) represent environments that could support biota similar to the degraded site in the absence of disturbance, 2) comprise a gradient of biotic conditions, and 3) contain enough sites to assess variability. We used expected biological similarity to select good sets of comparator sites from a large pool of potential sites for 15 poor-condition test sites in Southern California. Expected biological similarity was measured as Bray-Curtis dissimilarity values (BC) calculated from the expected benthic macroinvertebrate taxa lists produced by a predictive biotic index of stream health. We used an expected BC threshold of <= 0.05 to create the sets of comparator sites. Based on this criterion, we identified >70 comparator sites for each of the 15 test sites. To illustrate their utility in a causal assessment, we used the comparator sites to derive evidence of whether 4 example stressors-elevated conductivity, elevated N, elevated fine sediment, and hardening of the stream channel-contributed to the poor biotic conditions at each of the 15 test sites. We used spatial-temporal co-occurrence type of evidence to evaluate the data and found that elevated conductivity and elevated fine sediment were the likely cause of biotic degradation at the most test sites. We developed the comparator site selection approach described here in the context of the stream bioassessment program in California, USA, but this approach could be adapted by any bioassessment program with a large amount of sample data and an associated predictive index of biotic condition, such as the National Aquatic Resource Survey. Furthermore, this approach lays the groundwork for rapid, screening-level causal assessment to become part of routine bioassessment, which would then inform follow-up management actions.		[Gillett, David J.; Mazor, Raphael D.] Southern Calif Coastal Water Res Project, 3535 Harbor Blvd,Suite 110, Costa Mesa, CA 92626 USA; [Norton, Susan B.] US EPA, Off Res & Dev, Dev Natl Ctr Environm Assessment, 1200 Penn Ave NW, Washington, DC 20160 USA; [Gillett, David J.] Southern Calif Coastal Water Res Project, 3535 Harbor Blvd,Suite 110, Costa Mesa, CA 92626 USA								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000481502300010		
J	Wu, Qiang; Zhang, Yapeng; Li, Yemei; Li, Jing; Zhang, Xiaohong; Li, Pengfu								Comparison of community composition between Microcystis colony-attached and free-living bacteria, and among bacteria attached with Microcystis colonies of various sizes in culture								AQUATIC ECOLOGY				53	3			465	481		10.1007/s10452-019-09702-7			SEP 2019	2019	A better understanding of the distribution pattern of bacterial community in the Microcystis phycosphere will aid in elucidating the role of bacteria in the formation of cyanobacterial bloom. In the present study, we aimed to compare community composition between Microcystis colony-attached and free-living bacteria, as well as among bacteria attached with Microcystis colonies of various sizes in culture. In the exponentially growing cyanobacterial cultures, Proteobacteria was the most dominant phylum in each colony-attached bacterial community, whereas Bacteroidetes was the most dominant phylum in each free-living bacterial community. The analysis using an indirect PCA model and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index indicated that the dissimilarity between colony-attached and free-living bacterial communities was greater in the exponentially growing cyanobacterial cultures, and it became smaller in the stationary cultures of Microcystis. In the exponential growth phase of Microcystis, the relative abundance of Proteobacteria in colony-attached bacterial communities tended to decrease with decreasing colony size, whereas the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes in colony-attached bacterial communities tended to increase. In the exponential growth phase of Microcystis, the community composition dissimilarity among bacteria attached with Microcystis colonies of various sizes could be ranked in a descending order as follows: > 100 mu m versus < 50 mu m; 50-100 mu m versus < 50 mu m; and > 100 mu m versus 50-100 mu m. Our data indicated that the community composition of Microcystis colony-attached bacteria was different from that of free-living bacteria, and the colony size of Microcystis played an important role in structuring the community composition of Microcystis-attached bacteria.		[Wu, Qiang; Zhang, Yapeng; Li, Yemei; Li, Jing; Zhang, Xiaohong; Li, Pengfu] Nanjing Univ, Sch Life Sci, State Key Lab Pharmaceut Biotechnol, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Li, Pengfu] Nanjing Univ, Sch Life Sci, State Key Lab Pharmaceut Biotechnol, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								6							Ecology; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000479119600012		
J	Pragman, Alexa A.; Knutson, Katherine A.; Gould, Trevor J.; Hodgson, Shane W.; Isaacson, Richard E.; Reilly, Cavan S.; Wendt, Chris H.								Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease upper airway microbiome is associated with select clinical characteristics								PLOS ONE				14	7					e0219962	10.1371/journal.pone.0219962			JUL 23 2019	2019	Background Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an inflammatory lung disorder associated with lung microbiome dysbiosis. Although the upper airway microbiome is the source of the lung microbiome, the relationships between the oral, nasal, and sputum microbiota are incompletely understood. Our objective was to determine features that differentiate the oral, nasal, and sputum microbiome among subjects with stable COPD. Methods We recruited 15 current or former smokers to provide oral and sputum samples on day 1. On day 2, another oral sample and a nasal sample were obtained. Each sample and control underwent DNA extraction, 16S V4 rRNA amplification, 16S V4 sequencing, and qPCR of 16S rRNA. Data were analyzed using dada2 and R. Results Most (14 of 15) subjects were male with a mean age of 65.2. One subject had no pulmonary obstruction, while 5 had mild COPD, 7 had moderate COPD, and 2 had severe COPD. Three subjects (20%) were current tobacco users and 2 subjects (13%) used inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). Subjects had a mean of 49.1 pack-years of tobacco exposure. Bacterial biomass was associated with anatomic site, but no differences in biomass were observed with age, FEV1 percent predicted (FEV1pp), ICS use, smoking status, or edentulous state. Shannon index was associated with site (lower nasal diversity than oral and sputum diversity, p<0.001), but not age, ICS use, FEV1pp, tobacco use, or edentulous state. (3-diversity was illustrated by principal coordinate analysis using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and PERMA-NOVA analyses, showing sample clustering by anatomic site (p = 0.001) with nasal samples forming a cluster separate from the combined oral wash samples and sputum samples. Clustering was also observed with ICS use (p = 0.029) and edentulous state (p = 0.019), while FEV1pp and current tobacco use were not significant. In an amplicon sequencing variant (ASV)-level analysis of oral samples using a linear regression model with Benjamini-Hochberg correction at an FDR<0.10, 10 ASVs were associated with age while no ASVs were associated with FEV1pp or smoking status. Sputum sample analysis demonstrated that 51 ASVs (25 unique genera) were associated with age, 61 ASVs (32 genera) were associated with FEV1pp, and no ASVs were associated with smoking status. In a combined dataset, the frequent exacerbator phenotype, rather than ICS use, was associated with decreased sputum Shannon diversity. Conclusions Among the upper airway microbiota of COPD subjects, anatomic site was associated with bacterial biomass, Shannon diversity, and beta-diversity. ICS use and edentulous state were both associated with beta-diversity. Age was associated with taxa relative abundance in oral and sputum samples, while FEV1pp was associated with taxa relative abundance in sputum samples only.		[Pragman, Alexa A.; Wendt, Chris H.] Minneapolis Vet Affairs Med Ctr, Dept Med, Minneapolis, MN 55417 USA; [Pragman, Alexa A.; Wendt, Chris H.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA; [Knutson, Katherine A.; Reilly, Cavan S.] Univ Minnesota, Div Biostat, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Gould, Trevor J.] Univ Minnesota, Informat Inst, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Hodgson, Shane W.] Minneapolis Vet Affairs Med Ctr, Res Serv, Minneapolis, MN USA; [Isaacson, Richard E.] Univ Minnesota, Dept Vet & Biomed Sci, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Hodgson, Shane W.] Recombinetics Inc, St Paul, MN USA; [Pragman, Alexa A.] Minneapolis Vet Affairs Med Ctr, Dept Med, Minneapolis, MN 55417 USA; [Pragman, Alexa A.] Univ Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455 USA								13							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000484975500024		
J	Hao, Minhui; Javier Corral-Rivas, J.; Socorro Gonzalez-Elizondo, M.; Ganeshaiah, K. Narayanagowda; Guadalupe Nava-Miranda, M.; Zhang, Chunyu; Zhao, Xiuhai; von Gadow, Klaus								Assessing biological dissimilarities between five forest communities								FOREST ECOSYSTEMS				6						30	10.1186/s40663-019-0188-9			JUN 6 2019	2019	BackgroundDissimilarity in community composition is one of the most fundamental and conspicuous features by which different forest ecosystems may be distinguished. Traditional estimates of community dissimilarity are based on differences in species incidence or abundance (e.g. the Jaccard, SOrensen, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices). However, community dissimilarity is not only affected by differences in species incidence or abundance, but also by biological heterogeneities among species.MethodsThe objective of this study is to present a new measure of dissimilarity involving the biological heterogeneity among species. The discriminating Avalanche introduced in this study, is based on the taxonomic dissimilarity between tree species. The application is demonstrated using observations from five stem-mapped forest plots in China and Mexico. We compared three traditional community dissimilarity indices (Jaccard, SOrensen, and Bray-Curtis) with the discriminating Avalanche index, which incorporates information, not only about species frequencies, but also about their taxonomic hierarchies.ResultsDifferent patterns emerged for different measures of community dissimilarity. Compared with the traditional approaches, the discriminating Avalanche values showed a more realistic estimate of community dissimilarities, indicating a greater similarity among communities when species were closely related.ConclusionsTraditional approaches for assessing community dissimilarity disregard the taxonomic hierarchy. In the traditional analysis, the dissimilarity between Pinus cooperi and Pinus durangensis would be the same as the dissimilarity between P. cooperi and Arbutus arizonica. The dissimilarity Avalanche dissimilarity between P. cooperi and P. durangensis is considerably lower than the dissimilarity between P. cooperi and A. arizonica, because the taxonomic hierarchies are incorporated. Therefore, the discriminating Avalanche is a more realistic measure of community dissimilarity. This main result of our study may contribute to improved characterization of community dissimilarities.		[Hao, Minhui; Zhang, Chunyu; Zhao, Xiuhai] Beijing Forestry Univ, State Forestry Grassland Adm, Res Ctr Forest Management Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Javier Corral-Rivas, J.; Guadalupe Nava-Miranda, M.] Univ Juarez Estado Durango, Inst Silvicultura & Ind Madera, Durango, Mexico; [Socorro Gonzalez-Elizondo, M.] Inst Politecn Nacl, CIIDIR Unidad Durango, Durango, Mexico; [Ganeshaiah, K. Narayanagowda] Univ Agr Sci, Sch Ecol & Conservat, Gandhi Krishi Vignan Kendra Campus, Bengaluru, India; [von Gadow, Klaus] Georg August Univ, Fac Forestry & Forest Ecol, Gottingen, Germany; [von Gadow, Klaus] Stellenbosch Univ, Fac AgriSci, Dept Forestry & Wood Sci, Matieland, South Africa; [Zhang, Chunyu] Beijing Forestry Univ, State Forestry Grassland Adm, Res Ctr Forest Management Engn, Beijing, Peoples R China								21							Forestry	WOS:000471020800001		
J	Koh, Hyunwook; Li, Yutong; Zhan, Xiang; Chen, Jun; Zhao, Ni								A Distance-Based Kernel Association Test Based on the Generalized Linear Mixed Model for Correlated Microbiome Studies								FRONTIERS IN GENETICS				10						458	10.3389/fgene.2019.00458			MAY 16 2019	2019	Researchers have increasingly employed family-based or longitudinal study designs to survey the roles of the human microbiota on diverse host traits of interest (e. g., health/disease status, medical intervention, behavioral/environmental factor). Such study designs are useful to properly control for potential confounders or the sensitive changes in microbial composition and host traits. However, downstream data analysis is challenging because the measurements within clusters (e.g., families, subjects including repeated measures) tend to be correlated so that statistical methods based on the independence assumption cannot be used. For the correlated microbiome studies, a distance-based kernel association test based on the linear mixed model, namely, correlated sequence kernel association test (cSKAT), has recently been introduced. cSKAT models the microbial community using an ecological distance (e.g., Jaccard/Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, unique fraction distance), and then tests its association with a host trait. Similar to prior distance-based kernel association tests (e.g., microbiome regression-based kernel association test), the use of ecological distances gives a high power to cSKAT. However, cSKAT is limited to handling Gaussian traits [e.g., body mass index (BMI)] and a single chosen distance measure at a time. The power of cSKAT differs a lot by which distance measure is used. However, choosing an optimal distance measure is challenging because of the unknown nature of the true association. Here, we introduce a distance-based kernel association test based on the generalized linear mixed model (GLMM), namely, GLMM-MiRKAT, to handle diverse types of traits, such as Gaussian (e.g., BMI), Binomial (e.g., disease status, treatment/placebo) or Poisson (e.g., number of tumors/treatments) traits. We further propose a data-driven adaptive test of GLMM-MiRKAT, namely, aGLMM-MiRKAT, so as to avoid the need to choose the optimal distance measure. Our extensive simulations demonstrate that aGLMM-MiRKAT is robustly powerful while correctly controlling type I error rates. We apply aGLMM-MiRKAT to real familial and longitudinal microbiome data, where we discover significant disparity in microbial community composition by BMI status and the frequency of antibiotic use. In summary, aGLMM-MiRKAT is a useful analytical tool with its broad applicability to diverse types of traits, robust power and valid statistical inference.		[Koh, Hyunwook; Zhao, Ni] Johns Hopkins Bloomberg Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat, Baltimore, MD 21205 USA; [Li, Yutong] Peking Univ, Sch Phys, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhan, Xiang] Penn State Univ, Dept Publ Hlth Sci, Hershey, PA USA; [Chen, Jun] Mayo Clin, Dept Hlth Sci Res, Rochester, MN USA; [Zhao, Ni] Johns Hopkins Bloomberg Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Biostat, Baltimore, MD 21205 USA								22							Genetics & Heredity	WOS:000468188400001		
J	Jung, M.; Rowhani, P.; Newbold, T.; Bentley, L.; Purvis, A.; Scharlemann, J. P. W.								Local species assemblages are influenced more by past than current dissimilarities in photosynthetic activity								ECOGRAPHY				42	4			670	682		10.1111/ecog.04031			APR 2019	2019	Most land on Earth has been changed by humans and past changes of land can have lasting influences on current species assemblages. Yet few globally representative studies explicitly consider such influences even though auxiliary data, such as from remote sensing, are readily available. Time series of satellite-derived data have been commonly used to quantify differences in land-surface attributes such as vegetation cover, which will among other things be influenced by anthropogenic land conversions and modifications. Here we quantify differences in current and past (up to five years before sampling) vegetation cover, and assess whether such differences differentially influence taxonomic and functional groups of species assemblages between spatial pairs of sites. Specifically, we correlated between-site dissimilarity in photosynthetic activity of vegetation (the enhanced vegetation index) with the corresponding dissimilarity in local species assemblage composition from a global database using a common metric for both, the Bray-Curtis index. We found that dissimilarity in species assemblage composition was on average more influenced by dissimilarity in past than current photosynthetic activity, and that the influence of past dissimilarity increased when longer time periods were considered. Responses to past dissimilarity in photosynthetic activity also differed among taxonomic groups (plants, invertebrates, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals), with reptiles being among the most influenced by more dissimilar past photosynthetic activity. Furthermore, we found that assemblages dominated by smaller and more vegetation-dependent species tended to be more influenced by dissimilarity in past photosynthetic activity than prey-dependent species. Overall, our results have implications for studies that investigate species responses to current environmental changes and highlight the importance of past changes continuing to influence local species assemblage composition. We demonstrate how local species assemblages and satellite-derived data can be linked and provide suggestions for future studies on how to assess the influence of past environmental changes on biodiversity.		[Jung, M.; Scharlemann, J. P. W.] Univ Sussex, Sch Life Sci, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Rowhani, P.] Univ Sussex, Sch Global Studies, Dept Geog, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Newbold, T.] UCL, Ctr Biodivers & Environm Res, Dept Genet Evolut & Environm, London, England; [Bentley, L.] Univ Cambridge, Dept Plant Sci, Cambridge, England; [Purvis, A.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Purvis, A.] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Ascot, Berks, England; [Jung, M.] Univ Sussex, Sch Life Sci, Brighton, E Sussex, England								6							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000462922500005		
J	Zhang, Zhiming; Gao, Junfeng; Cai, Yongjiu								The effects of environmental factors and geographic distance on species turnover in an agriculturally dominated river network								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				191	4					201	10.1007/s10661-019-7309-3			APR 2019	2019	Both environmental and geographic factors interact to structure the metacommunities in river networks, but the importance of these factors is difficult to distinguish. We used six aquatic taxonomic groups to test the relationship between environmental and geographic factors and their effect on species turnover patterns in an agriculturally dominated river (Chaohu Lake Basin, China). The relationships between three dissimilarity indices and geographic distance were assessed using the Mantel test while considering the differences in environmental factors between sites. Then, we employed a variation partitioning method to distinguish the isolated and combined effects of environmental and geographic distance on species turnover. There were significant relationships between environmental distance and species turnover in all groups. All organisms except periphytic diatoms were significantly correlated with two geographic (Euclidean and network) distances when the Chao dissimilarity index was considered. The results suggest that the strength of the correlations changed with environmental and geographic distances and with the aquatic community. The communities displayed more complex relationships with the distance measures when different dissimilarity (Jaccard, Chao, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) indices were considered. Nevertheless, aquatic communities are strongly influenced by both environmental and geographic distance, and the former has a stronger effect than the latter.		[Zhang, Zhiming; Gao, Junfeng; Cai, Yongjiu] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Key Lab Watershed Geog Sci, 73 East Beijing Rd, Nanjing 210008, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Gao, Junfeng] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Key Lab Watershed Geog Sci, 73 East Beijing Rd, Nanjing 210008, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								8							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000460122500001		
J	Han, Hye Seung; Lee, Sun-Young; Oh, Seo Young; Moon, Hee Won; Cho, Hyunseok; Kim, Ji-Hoon								Correlations of the Gastric and Duodenal Microbiota with Histological, Endoscopic, and Symptomatic Gastritis								JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MEDICINE				8	3					312	10.3390/jcm8030312			MAR 5 2019	2019	Mucosal inflammation is characterized by neutrophil and mononuclear cell infiltration. This study aimed to determine the gastric and duodenal microbiota associated with histological, endoscopic, and symptomatic gastritis. Dyspeptic adults who presented for evaluation were included. Subjects with either comorbidities or recent drug intake were excluded. Three endoscopic biopsies were obtained from the antrum, body, and duodenum. Next-generation sequencing for 16S ribosomal RNA V1-V2 hypervariable regions was performed. The correlation between the composition of microbiota and the degree of inflammatory cell infiltration, endoscopic findings, and Patient Assessment of Gastrointestinal Disorders Symptom Severity Index (PAGI-SYM) score was analyzed. In 98 included subjects, microbial communities in the antrum and body showed Bray-Curtis similarity; however, those in the duodenum showed dissimilarity. Histological and endoscopic gastritis was associated with the abundance of Helicobacter pylori and that of commensal bacteria in the stomach. The abundances of Variovorax paradoxus and Porphyromonas gingivalis were correlated with histological gastritis, but not with endoscopic or symptomatic gastritis. The total PAGI-SYM score showed a stronger correlation with the duodenal microbiota (Prevotella nanceiensis and Alloprevotella rava) than with the gastric microbiota (H. pylori, Neisseria elongate, and Corynebacterium segmentosum). Different correlations of the gastric and duodenal microbiota with histological, endoscopic, and symptomatic gastritis were observed for the first time at the species level. H. pylori-negative gastritis is not associated with endoscopic or symptomatic gastritis. Only H. pylori-induced endoscopic gastritis requires gastric cancer surveillance. Owing to the weak correlation with H. pylori, symptomatic gastritis should be assessed separately from histological and endoscopic gastritis.		[Han, Hye Seung; Oh, Seo Young] Konkuk Univ, Sch Med, Dept Pathol, Seoul 05030, South Korea; [Lee, Sun-Young] Konkuk Univ, Sch Med, Dept Internal Med, Seoul 05030, South Korea; [Moon, Hee Won] Konkuk Univ, Sch Med, Dept Lab Med, Seoul 05030, South Korea; [Cho, Hyunseok; Kim, Ji-Hoon] BioCore Co Ltd, R&D Ctr, Seoul 08511, South Korea; [Lee, Sun-Young] Konkuk Univ, Sch Med, Dept Internal Med, Seoul 05030, South Korea								19							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:000464424500005		
J	Bello-Rodriguez, Victor; Gomez, Luis A.; Fernandez Lopez, Angel; Del-Arco-Aguilar, Marcelino J.; Hernandez-Hernandez, Raquel; Emerson, Brent; Maria Gonzalez-Mancebo, Juana								Short- and long-term effects of fire in subtropical cloud forests on an oceanic island								LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT				30	4			448	458		10.1002/ldr.3237			FEB 28 2019	2019	The recurrence of fires has increased considerably due to human activity, affecting even forests where traditionally fire is uncommon. In this study, we verify the effects of degradation caused by fire in the Canarian laurel forests, which is a subtropical forest formation restricted to the humid montane areas of these Macaronesian islands. We evaluated the effect of fire by comparing a series of burned plots corresponding to fires from 1960, 1984, 1995, to 2012 with geographically proximate and comparable unburned plots in the Garajonay National Park (La Gomera Island, Spain). We focused on three aspects that are immediately altered by fire: forest structure, floristic composition, and microclimate. These aspects have been quantified using (a) tree density, the Pielou index using tree height classes, and DBH for the vertical structure of the forest; (b) DCA, the Bray Curtis dissimilarity index, and a species indicator analysis for the floristic composition; and (c) temperature and relative humidity for microclimate under three canopy cover conditions. Our results reveal that, overall, structural complexity and its composition in the burned areas have barely reached 40% and 35%, respectively, when compared with unburned areas, and recovery mainly depends on time since fire. Additionally, burned plots presented more pioneer species, a higher density of trees, and climatic variables tend to have a wider range throughout the day. These data reveal the long time span that this ecosystem needs for recovery to a prefire state and how it may be more prone to subsequent fire events.		[Bello-Rodriguez, Victor; Del-Arco-Aguilar, Marcelino J.; Hernandez-Hernandez, Raquel; Maria Gonzalez-Mancebo, Juana] ULL, Dept Bot Ecol & Fisiol Vegetal, Plant Conservat & Biogeog Res Grp, Ave Astrofis Francisco Sanchez S-N, San Cristobal la Laguna 38071, Santa Cruz De T, Spain; [Gomez, Luis A.] TRAGSATEC, Grp TRAGSA, Gerencia Tragsatec UT Dept La Gomera EI Hierro 4, Proyectos Agsa Mapi, Avda Quinto Centenario S-N,Edif San Jose Local 4, San Sebastian De La Gome 38800, Santa Cruz De T, Spain; [Fernandez Lopez, Angel] Parque Nacl Garajonay,Edificio Creces Local 1, San Sebastian De La Gome 38800, Santa Cruz De T, Spain; [Emerson, Brent] Inst Prod Nat, Avda Astrofis Francisco Sanchez 3, San Cristobal la Laguna 38206, Santa Cruz De T, Spain; [Emerson, Brent] Univ East Anglia, Sch Biol Sci, Norwich Res Pk, Norwich NR4 7TJ, Norfolk, England; [Bello-Rodriguez, Victor] ULL, Dept Bot Ecol & Fisiol Vegetal, Plant Conservat & Biogeog Res Grp, Ave Astrofis Francisco Sanchez S-N, San Cristobal la Laguna 38071, Tenerife, Spain								10							Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000458674300008		
J	Walker, Rebecca E.; Walker, Caroline G.; Camargo, Carlos A., Jr.; Bartley, Jim; Flint, David; Thompson, John M. D.; Mitchell, Edwin A.								Nasal microbial composition and chronic otitis media with effusion: A case-control study								PLOS ONE				14	2					e0212473	10.1371/journal.pone.0212473			FEB 22 2019	2019	Objectives Chronic otitis media with effusion (COME) in children can cause prolonged hearing loss, which is associated with an increased risk of learning delays and behavioural problems. Dispersal of bacterial pathogens from the nasal passages to the middle ear is implicated in COME. We sought to determine whether there is an association between nasal microbial composition and COME in children. Methods A case-control study of children aged 3 and 4 years was conducted. Cases undergoing placement of tympanostomy tubes for COME were compared to healthy controls. Nasal swabs were collected and a questionnaire was administered. The V1-3 region of the 16S rRNA gene was amplified, and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq. Results 73 children with COME had a lower Shannon diversity index than 105 healthy controls (1.62 [.80] versus 1.88 [.84], respectively; P = .046). The nasal microbiota of cases and controls differed in composition using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (p = 0.002). Children with COME had a higher abundance of otopathogens and lower abundance of commensals including alpha haemolytic Streptococci and Lactococcus. Cluster analysis revealed 4 distinct nasal microbial profiles. Profiles that were Corynebacterium-dominated (aOR 4.18 [95% CI, 1.6810.39], Streptococcus-dominated (aOR 3.12 [95% CI, 1.08-9.06], or Moraxella-dominated (aOR 4.70 [95% CI, 1.73-12.80] were associated with COME, compared to a more mixed microbial profile when controlling for age, ethnicity, and recent antibiotics use. Conclusions Children with COME have a less diverse nasal microbial composition with a higher abundance of pathogens, compared to healthy children who have a more mixed bacterial profile with a higher abundance of commensals. Further research is required to determine how nasal microbiota may relate to the pathogenesis or maintenance of COME, and whether modification of the nasal microbiota can prevent or treat children at risk of COME.		[Walker, Rebecca E.; Thompson, John M. D.; Mitchell, Edwin A.] Univ Auckland, Dept Paediat Child & Youth Hlth, Auckland, New Zealand; [Walker, Caroline G.] Univ Auckland, Dept Populat Hlth, Ctr Longitudinal Res He Ara Ki Mua, Auckland, New Zealand; [Camargo, Carlos A., Jr.] Harvard Med Sch, Massachusetts Gen Hosp, Dept Emergency Med, Boston, MA 02115 USA; [Bartley, Jim; Flint, David] Manukau SuperClin, Counties Manukau Dist Hlth Board, Div Otolaryngol Head & Neck Surg, Auckland, New Zealand; [Walker, Rebecca E.] Univ Auckland, Dept Paediat Child & Youth Hlth, Auckland, New Zealand								12							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000459709100073		
J	Pavoine, Sandrine; Ricotta, Carlo								Measuring functional dissimilarity among plots: Adapting old methods to new questions								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				97				67	72		10.1016/j.ecolind.2018.09.048			FEB 2019	2019	Ecologists routinely use dissimilarity measures between pairs of plots to explore the complex mechanisms that drive community assembly. Traditional dissimilarity measures usually quantify plot-to-plot dissimilarity based either on species presences and absences within plots or on species abundances, thus assuming that all species are equally and maximally distinct from one another. However, the value of dissimilarity measures that incorporate information on functional differences among species is becoming increasingly recognized. Since these 'functional dissimilarity measures' have been developed for capturing new aspects of plot-to-plot dissimilarity, they have usually little to do with more traditional measures based solely on species incidence or abundance data. In this paper we introduce a general method for adapting a large family of traditional dissimilarity coefficients to the measurement of functional differences among plots. The behavior of the proposed method, for which we provide a simple R function, was evaluated with published data on plant communities in a coastal marsh plain in Algeria. As shown by the worked example, our proposal produces a coherent framework for summarizing functional dissimilarity among plots. Being based on a generalization of classical dissimilarity measures with well-known properties, this new family of functional dissimilarity indices also has a great potential for future theoretical and applied developments in this field of research.		[Pavoine, Sandrine] Sorbonne Univ, CNRS, Museum Natl Hist Nat, Ctr Ecol & Sci Conservat CESCO, 43 Rue Cuvier,CP 135, F-75005 Paris, France; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								9							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000464891000008		
J	Kandler, Nora M.; Wooster, Michael K.; Leray, Matthieu; Knowlton, Nancy; de Voogd, Nicole J.; Paulay, Gustav; Berumen, Michael L.								Hyperdiverse Macrofauna Communities Associated with a Common Sponge, Stylissa carteri, Shift across Ecological Gradients in the Central Red Sea								DIVERSITY-BASEL				11	2					18	10.3390/d11020018			FEB 2019	2019	Sponges act as important microhabitats in the marine environment and promote biodiversity by harboring a wide variety of macrofauna, but little is known about the magnitude and patterns of diversity of sponge-associated communities. This study uses DNA barcoding to examine the macrofaunal communities associated with Stylissa carteri in the central Saudi Arabian Red Sea, an understudied ecosystem with high biodiversity and endemism. In total, 146 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were distinguished from 938 successfully-sequenced macrofauna individuals from 99 sponges. A significant difference was found in the macrofaunal community composition of S. carteri along a cross-shelf gradient using OTU abundance (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index), with more amphipods associated with offshore sponges and more brittle stars and fishes associated with inshore sponges. The abundance of S. carteri also showed a gradient, increasing with proximity to shore. However, no significant differences in macrofaunal community composition or total macrofauna abundance were observed between exposed and sheltered sides of the reefs and there was no significant change in total macrofauna abundance along the inshore-offshore gradient. As climate change and ocean acidification continue to impact coral reef ecosystems, understanding the ecology of sponges and their role as microhabitats may become more important for understanding their full ramifications for biodiversity.		[Kandler, Nora M.; Wooster, Michael K.; Berumen, Michael L.] King Abdullah Univ Sci & Technol, Div Biol & Environm Sci & Engn, Red Sea Res Ctr, Thuwal 239556900, Saudi Arabia; [Leray, Matthieu; Knowlton, Nancy] Natl Museum Nat Hist, Smithsonian Inst, Washington, DC 20013 USA; [de Voogd, Nicole J.] Naturalis Biodivers Ctr, NL-2333 CR Leiden, Netherlands; [de Voogd, Nicole J.] Leiden Univ, Inst Environm Sci, Environm Biol Dept, CML, NL-2333 CC Leiden, Netherlands; [Paulay, Gustav] Florida Museum Nat Hist, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Kandler, Nora M.] Victoria Univ Wellington, Sch Biol Sci, Wellington 6012, New Zealand; [Leray, Matthieu] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa 03092, Ancon, Panama; [Kandler, Nora M.] King Abdullah Univ Sci & Technol, Div Biol & Environm Sci & Engn, Red Sea Res Ctr, Thuwal 239556900, Saudi Arabia; [Kandler, Nora M.] Victoria Univ Wellington, Sch Biol Sci, Wellington 6012, New Zealand								6							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000460704900004		
J	Liskiewicz, Pawel; Pelka-Wysiecka, Justyna; Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz; Loniewski, Igor; Wronski, Michal; Baba-Kubis, Agata; Skonieczna-Zydecka, Karolina; Marlicz, Wojciech; Misiak, Blaiej; Samochowiec, Jerzy								Fecal Microbiota Analysis in Patients Going through a Depressive Episode during Treatment in a Psychiatric Hospital Setting								JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MEDICINE				8	2					164	10.3390/jcm8020164			FEB 2019	2019	Rationale: There is a worldwide prevalence of generalized anxiety and major depressive disorders (MDD). Gut-brain axis dysfunction, antibacterial activity, and modulatory effects of antidepressants toward intestinal bacteria have been shown both in vitro and in vivo. Objectives: In this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of hospital stay, including escitalopram administration, on gut microbiota in patients with depressive episodes. Methods: After admission to the hospital and 7-days washout from all medications the composition of fecal microbiota samples was evaluated at baseline (W0) and after 6 weeks (W6), using 16S rRNA sequencing. The study was conducted on 17 inpatients (52.9% females), who followed the same daily hospital routine, including a standard diet and received 5-20 mg daily doses of escitalopram. Results: At the end of treatment (W6), no change was observed in the Chao1 index. However, Shannon (median (Q1-Q3): W0 2.78 (2.67-3.02) vs. W6 3.11 (2.80-3.30)), and inverse Simpson (median (Q1-Q3): W0 9.26 (7.26-13.76) vs. W6 12.13 (9.17-15.73)) indices increased significantly compared to baseline values (False Discovery Rate p (q) = 0.031 and q = 0.011, respectively). We also found that between-subject W0 Bray-Curtis dissimilarities were significantly higher than W0-W6 within-subject dissimilarities (median (Q1-Q3): 0.68 (0.56-0.77) vs. 0.38 (0.35-0.52), two sided Mann-Whitney test p < 0.00001. The within-subject dissimilarities did not depend on sex, age, BMI, illness duration and a daily dose of escitalopram. No significant differences between taxa levels, at the studied time points, were observed when adjusted for multiple hypotheses testing procedures. Conclusions: We conclude that a six-week treatment in a psychiatric hospital setting resulted in increased alpha biodiversity in fecal microbiota, however its causal relationship with patients' mental health was not proved. We have also found that individual microbiome stability was not affected by hospitalization.		[Liskiewicz, Pawel; Pelka-Wysiecka, Justyna; Wronski, Michal; Baba-Kubis, Agata; Samochowiec, Jerzy] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Psychiat, Broniewskiego 26, PL-71460 Szczecin, Poland; [Kaczmarczyk, Mariusz] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Clin & Mol Biochem, PowstancOw Wielkopolskich 72, PL-70111 Szczecin, Poland; [Loniewski, Igor; Skonieczna-Zydecka, Karolina] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Biochem & Human Nutr, Broniewskiego 24, PL-71460 Szczecin, Poland; [Marlicz, Wojciech] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Gastroenterol, Unii Lubelskiej 1, PL-71252 Szczecin, Poland; [Misiak, Blaiej] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept Genet, Marcinkowskiego 1, PL-50368 Wroclaw, Poland; [Loniewski, Igor] Pomeranian Med Univ, Dept Biochem & Human Nutr, Broniewskiego 24, PL-71460 Szczecin, Poland								29							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:000460295400037		
J	Pilo, D.; Carvalho, A. N.; Pereira, F.; Coelho, H. E.; Gaspar, M. B.								Evaluation of macrobenthic community responses to dredging through a multimetric approach: Effective or apparent recovery?								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				96				656	668		10.1016/j.ecolind.2018.08.064			JAN 2019	2019	Macrobenthic responses to dredging activities were evaluated in a mesotidal coastal lagoon (Ria Formosa South Portugal). Four areas (2 dredged and 2 non-dredged) were analysed along different dredging situations (pre-dredging, during dredge 1, during dredge 2 and post-dredging). Beyond the evaluation of sediment descriptors and classical ecological indicators (number of species and abundance), the beta diversity component (partitioned into turnover and nestedness) was used to detect dredging effects on macrobenthic communities, together with a multivariate analysis (both quantitative and qualitative) including the ecological status assessment. Results confirmed the limitations of alpha diversity indicators in detecting dredging effects in naturally stressed systems, given the absence of clear patterns regarding number of species, abundance and equitability among areas and dredging situations. Moreover, post-dredging presented a higher number of species compared to pre-dredging, suggesting a positive disequilibrium induced by these activities. In contrast, partitioned beta diversity analysis revealed higher nestedness values at dredged areas, while turnover clearly prevailed at non-dredged ones. Such results suggest an effective impact of dredging on these communities, namely through the decrease of rarer species after sediment removal. This qualitative analysis, based on presence absence data (Sorensen dissimilarity), was complemented by multivariate analysis (SIMPER and PERMANOVA) based on quantitative data (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), highlighting the importance of adopting both approaches to detect dredging impacts on benthic communities. Lower effectiveness was found for M-AMBI index when evaluating benthic Ecological Status, since the apparent absence of organic matter and sediment composition shifts induced by dredging, together with the noticeable high diversity even during dredging situations, strongly limited the analysis. The multimetric approach here proposed can contribute to detect dredging effects on lagoonal benthic communities by disentangling the responses caused by dredging from those resulting from the system natural dynamics.		[Pilo, D.; Carvalho, A. N.; Pereira, F.; Gaspar, M. B.] Portuguese Inst Sea & Atmosphere IPMA, Ave 5 Outubro, P-8700305 Olhao, Portugal; [Pilo, D.; Gaspar, M. B.] Univ Algarve UAlg, Ctr Marine Sci CCMAR, Campus Gambelas, P-8005139 Faro, Portugal; [Coelho, H. E.] Bioinsight, Rua Antero Quental,52 Loja B, P-2675690 Odivelas, Portugal; [Pilo, D.] Portuguese Inst Sea & Atmosphere IPMA, Ave 5 Outubro, P-8700305 Olhao, Portugal								14							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000464889600065		
J	Pereira Souza Lobo, Maria Tereza Morais; Nogueira, Ina de Souza; Sgarbi, Luciano Fabris; Kraus, Cleber Nunes; Bomfim, Eudes de Oliveira; Garnier, Jerermie; Marques, David da Motta; Bonnet, Marie-Paule								Morphology-based functional groups as the best tool to characterize shallow lake-dwelling phytoplankton on an Amazonian floodplain								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				95				579	588		10.1016/j.ecolind.2018.07.038			DEC 2018	2018	River floodplains are subject to different inundation scenarios, mainly related to the flood pulse. Moreover, the ecology of floodplain lakes is modulated by exchanges of water with the main stream. On Amazonian flood plains, the water level fluctuates seasonally, with four distinct stages during the year: rising, high, falling, and low water. This study evaluated how/which three functional approaches to phytoplankton (FG, functional groups; MFG, morphofunctional groups; and MBFG, morphology-based functional groups) showed the largest relation to the environmental variations in response to rising and falling water periods, using data of the seven lakes sampled during rising and falling water periods, on the Curuai Floodplain system, Para state, Brazil. We used a Principal Coordinates Analysis to check for differences in phytoplankton species composition between the rising and falling water periods and a Redundancy Analysis to evaluate the relationship between functional approaches and environmental. Electrical conductivity, silica, and pH were the most important environmental variables to structuring the phytoplankton. The biological dissimilarity was computed using Bray-Curtis index for species biovolume and indicated greater similarity among the species compositions in the lakes during the falling water period. During rising water species is adapted in almost all lentic ecosystems (FG Y) and autotrophic organisms typical from the meroplanktonic that can be found in phytoplankton samples of the shallow lakes (FG MP); cryptomonads (MFG 2d), large centrics (MFG 6a), and large pennates (MFG 6b); and non flagellated organisms with siliceous exoskeletons (MBFG VI) and unicellular flagellates of medium to large size (MBFG V) were predominant. During falling water, species that tolerate eutrophic to hypertrophic environments with low nitrogen content predominated all shallow lakes (FGs H1 and M; MFGs 5e and 5b; and MBFGs III and VII) and Dolichospermum spp. formed blooms. Morphology-based functional groups were the larger relation with the environmental variations than did functional groups and morphofunctional groups. MBFGs provides a relatively simple and objective classification and were the best in characterizing phytoplankton dynamics on the Curuai floodplain. Therefore, we recommend using these groups to study phytoplankton ecology in shallow floodplain lakes.		[Pereira Souza Lobo, Maria Tereza Morais] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Biodiversidade Vegetal, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Pereira Souza Lobo, Maria Tereza Morais; Nogueira, Ina de Souza] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Bot, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Sgarbi, Luciano Fabris] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Evolucao, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Kraus, Cleber Nunes] Univ Brasilia, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Ambientais, BR-73340710 Planaltina, DF, Brazil; [Bomfim, Eudes de Oliveira] Univ Brasilia, Inst Geociencias, Programa Posgrad Geociencias Aplicadas, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Garnier, Jerermie] Univ Brasilia, Inst Geociencias, Lab Geoquim, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Marques, David da Motta] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Pesquisas Hidraul, Ave Bento Goncalves, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Garnier, Jerermie; Bonnet, Marie-Paule] UnB IRD, Joint Int Lab LMI OCE Observ Environm Change, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Marques, David da Motta; Bonnet, Marie-Paule] Inst Rech Dev, UMR Espace DEV, 500 Rue JF Breton, F-34000 Montpellier, France; [Pereira Souza Lobo, Maria Tereza Morais] Univ Fed Goias, Lab Anal & Gerenciamento Ambiental Recursos Hidr, Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil								17							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000456907400055		
J	Moreno, Claudia E.; Calderon-Patron, Jaime M.; Martin-Regalado, Natalia; Martinez-Falcon, Ana P.; Ortega-Martinez, Ilse J.; Rios-Diaz, Cecilia L.; Rosas, Fernando								Measuring species diversity in the tropics: a review of methodological approaches and framework for future studies								BIOTROPICA				50	6			929	941		10.1111/btp.12607			NOV 2018	2018	The analysis of species diversity has benefited from multiple methodological approaches that are changing not only the way we measure biodiversity, but also our general conceptualization of it. We review the concepts and methods for measuring species diversity, including a report on how species diversity has been measured in tropical ecosystems, and summarize current methodological approaches that can be used to achieve more comprehensive analyses of species diversity. We reviewed papers dealing with species diversity published in Biotropica over the last 28 yr. Most of the studies were carried out in the Neotropics. The most popular methods for reporting alpha diversity were species accumulation curves, rarefaction curves, and the Shannon-Wiener index, while beta diversity assessments mainly relied on the Sorensen, Jaccard or Bray-Curtis indices. We offer a general framework for comprehensive biodiversity assessments that includes the alpha and beta components, and taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic dimensions. We briefly describe the conceptual background, relevant methods, and examples of the components, and dimensions described in this framework. To improve our knowledge of tropical biodiversity and its regulatory processes, we encourage researchers to carry out more complete assessments, and to take advantage of the wide variety of methods available; methods that are perhaps especially useful in human-disturbed and human-managed landscapes.		[Moreno, Claudia E.; Calderon-Patron, Jaime M.; Martin-Regalado, Natalia; Martinez-Falcon, Ana P.; Ortega-Martinez, Ilse J.; Rios-Diaz, Cecilia L.; Rosas, Fernando] Univ Autonoma Estado Hidalgo, Inst Ciencias Basicas & Ingn, Ctr Invest Biol, Carretera Pachuca Tulancingo Km 4-5, Mineral De La Reforma 42184, Hidalgo, Mexico; [Calderon-Patron, Jaime M.] Inst Tecnol Valle Oaxaca, Xococotlan 71230, Oaxaca, Mexico; [Moreno, Claudia E.] Univ Autonoma Estado Hidalgo, Inst Ciencias Basicas & Ingn, Ctr Invest Biol, Carretera Pachuca Tulancingo Km 4-5, Mineral De La Reforma 42184, Hidalgo, Mexico								36							Ecology	WOS:000450034100011		
J	Costa, L. E. N.; Farias, R. P.; Santiago, A. C. P.; Silva, I. A. A.; Barros, I. C. L.								Abiotic factors drives floristic variations of fern's metacommunity in an Atlantic Forest remnant								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				78	4			736	741		10.1590/1519-6984.175633			NOV 2018	2018	We analyzed floristic variations in fern's metacommunity at the local scale and their relationship with abiotic factors in an Atlantic Forest remnant of northeastern Brazil. Floristic and environmental variations were accessed on ten plots of 10 x 20 m. We performed cluster analyses, based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index to establish the floristic relationship. The influence of abiotic factors: luminosity, temperature, relative air humidity and relative soil moisture was evaluated from a redundancy analysis. We found 24 species belonging to 20 genera and 12 families. The fern's flora showed high floristic heterogeneity (>75% for most of the plot's associations). The fern's metacommunity was structured along an abiotic gradient modulated by temperature, luminosity, and relative soil moisture.		[Costa, L. E. N.; Farias, R. P.; Barros, I. C. L.] Univ Fed Pernambuco UFPE, Programa Posgrad Biol Vegetal, Rua Prof Nelson Chaves,Cidade Univ, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Santiago, A. C. P.] Univ Fed Pernambuco UFPE, Ctr Acad Vitoria, Rua Alto Reservatorio, BR-55608680 Vitoria De Santo Antao, PE, Brazil; [Silva, I. A. A.] Univ Fed Rural Rio de Janeiro UFRRJ, Dept Bot, Rodovia BR 465,Km 07 S-N, BR-23890000 Seropedica, RJ, Brazil; [Costa, L. E. N.] Univ Fed Pernambuco UFPE, Programa Posgrad Biol Vegetal, Rua Prof Nelson Chaves,Cidade Univ, BR-50670420 Recife, PE, Brazil								2							Biology	WOS:000438317900019		
J	Liu, Jinliang; Vellend, Mark; Wang, Zuhua; Yu, Mingjian								High beta diversity among small islands is due to environmental heterogeneity rather than ecological drift								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				45	10			2252	2261		10.1111/jbi.13404			OCT 2018	2018	Aims Both ecological drift and environmental heterogeneity can produce high beta diversity among communities, but only the effect of drift is expected to be enhanced in communities of small size. Few studies have explicitly tested the influence of community size on patterns of beta diversity. Here we applied a series of analyses aimed at testing the influence of drift versus environmental heterogeneity on beta diversity among tree communities on islands of variable size. Location Thousand Island Lake, Zhejiang Province, China. Methods We used data on mapped tree communities and environmental conditions for 20 small islands (<1 ha) and nine large islands (>1 ha) created via the construction of a hydroelectric dam in 1959. Beta diversity was calculated using abundance-based multiple-site dissimilarity based on the Bray-Curtis index. On the basis of the hypothesis of ecological drift among small islands, we tested for higher beta diversity among small than large islands using: (a) raw data (b) controlling for the number of individual sampled on a given island, and (c) controlling for the contiguous sampling area and thus for intra-island environmental heterogeneity. We also tested the prediction that the relationship between species composition and environmental variables should be weaker on small islands using canonical correspondence analyses. Results Using raw data and controlling for the number of individuals, community dissimilarity was significantly greater among small islands than among large islands. However, when controlling for contiguous sampling area this difference disappeared. Contrary to the prediction based on ecological drift, the strength of overall composition-environment relationships was not significantly weaker for small islands in any of the analyses, and environmental heterogeneity increased faster with area among small islands than among large islands. Main Conclusions Despite a result using raw data that was consistent with the hypothesis of ecological drift, our full set of results clearly indicated the high beta diversity among small islands was more likely due to environmental heterogeneity rather than ecological drift. This result points to a clear need to control for sampling area among habitats of different size when testing for statistical signatures of drift.		[Liu, Jinliang; Wang, Zuhua; Yu, Mingjian] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Vellend, Mark] Univ Sherbrooke, Dept Biol, Sherbrooke, PQ, Canada; [Yu, Mingjian] Zhejiang Univ, Coll Life Sci, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								43							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000452234900003		
J	Liu Hongmei; Wang Bin; Hu Xiaoke								Sediment bacterial communities are more complex in coastal shallow straits than in oceanic deep straits								JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				36	5			1643	1654		10.1007/s00343-018-7133-6			SEP 2018	2018	Straits are ideal models to investigate the bacterial community assembly in complex hydrological environments. However, few studies have focused on bacterial communities in them. Here, comparable bacterial communities in costal shallow Bohai Strait (BS) and oceanic deep Fram Strait (FS) were studied. The Shannon and Chao1 indices were both higher in BS than in FS. The relative abundances of the classes Deltaproteobacteria and Bacilli and the family Halieaceae were higher in BS than in FS, in contrast to the families OM1_clade and JTB255_marine_benthic_group, revealing typical characteristics of bacterial communities in coastal and oceanic regions. Cluster analysis based on the Bray-Curtis index showed that samples were clustered by depth layer in FS and BS, indicating that structures of bacterial communities would differ with increasing water depth in straits. Additionally, the cluster relationships among samples in abundant and rare communities were both similar to those in entire communities. However, the dissimilarities among samples showed a descending order as rare communities, entire communities and abundant communities. Network analysis indicated that the BS network was obviously more complex than the FS network. Filamentous bacteria Desulfobulbaceae exhibited high degree values in BS but not in FS, indicating key roles of Desulfobulbaceae in the BS. Our study provides different and common evidences for understanding microbial ecology in coastal shallow and oceanic deep straits.		[Liu Hongmei] Yantai Univ, Sch Ocean, Yantai 264003, Peoples R China; [Wang Bin; Hu Xiaoke] Chinese Acad Sci, Yantai Inst Coastal Zone Res, Key Lab Coastal Biol & Bioresource Utilizat, Yantai 264003, Peoples R China; [Hu Xiaoke] Chinese Acad Sci, Yantai Inst Coastal Zone Res, Key Lab Coastal Biol & Bioresource Utilizat, Yantai 264003, Peoples R China								2							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000450165300016		
J	Conedera, M.; Krebs, P.; Valese, E.; Cocca, G.; Schunk, C.; Menzel, A.; Vacik, H.; Cane, D.; Japelj, A.; Muri, B.; Ricotta, C.; Oliveri, S.; Pezzatti, G. B.								Characterizing Alpine pyrogeography from fire statistics								APPLIED GEOGRAPHY				98				87	99		10.1016/j.apgeog.2018.07.011			SEP 2018	2018	In this paper, we describe current fire characteristics in the Alpine region using a ten-year forest fire record at the third and lowest resolution of the European Classification of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS3). To this purpose, we performed hierarchical clustering based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index on five pyrogeographic metrics. This resulted in three main geographically well-distinguished clusters (Southern, Northern, and Maritime Alps) and two small groups of outliers. From a geographic point of view, we found a clear differentiation between the high fire density on the southern slope of the Alps and the substantially lower proportion of burnt areas registered in the north. The most relevant climatic (e.g., frequency and length of drought periods), environmental (e.g., vegetation types, mean elevation and predominant orientation of valleys), and socio-economic (e.g., population density and educational level) drivers for the described clusters of fire characteristics were also identified. The proposed pyrogeographic characterisation may represent an important baseline for detecting future shifts in fire occurrence or anomalous fire seasons.		[Conedera, M.; Krebs, P.; Pezzatti, G. B.] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Insubr Ecosyst Res Grp, A Ramel 18, CH-6593 Cadenazzo, Switzerland; [Valese, E.] Veneto Reg Civil Protect Bur, Via Paolucci 34, I-30175 Venice, Italy; [Cocca, G.] Reg Agcy Agr & Forestry Serv, ERSAF, Via Oliva 32, I-25084 Brescia, Italy; [Schunk, C.; Menzel, A.] Tech Univ Munich, Ecoclimatol, Hans Carl von Carlowitz Pl 2, D-85354 Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Menzel, A.] Tech Univ Munich, Inst Adv Study, Lichtenbergstr 2a, D-85748 Garching, Germany; [Vacik, H.] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci, Inst Silviculture, Peter Jordanstr 82, A-1190 Vienna, Austria; [Cane, D.] Agenzia Reg Protez Ambientale, Via Pio 7 9, I-10135 Turin, Italy; [Cane, D.] IIS Pascal, Via Carducci 4, I-10094 Giaveno, Italy; [Japelj, A.] Slovenian Forestry Inst, Vecna Pot 2, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Muri, B.] Slovenian Environm Agcy, Vojkova 1b, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia; [Ricotta, C.] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-100185 Rome, Italy; [Oliveri, S.] Univ Cattolica Sacro Cuore Brescia, Via Musei 41, I-25121 Brescia, Italy; [Conedera, M.] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Insubr Ecosyst Res Grp, A Ramel 18, CH-6593 Cadenazzo, Switzerland								24							Geography	WOS:000445982800009		
J	Kiros, Tadele G.; Pinloche, Eric; D'Inca, Romain; Auclair, Eric; Van Kessel, Andrew								Model development: establishing pigs with homogenous microbial profile in the hind gut								CANADIAN JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE				98	3			498	507		10.1139/cjas-2017-0066			SEP 2018	2018	The considerable animal-to-animal variation in microbial profiles is a challenge in elucidating the role of gut microbiota in host metabolism. The main purpose of this study was, therefore, to develop a pig model with reduced animal-to-animal variation in gut microbial profile. Twelve piglets from four sows were reared conventionally and 12 piglets from four sows were reared artificially in high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filtered isolators. All isolator-reared piglets were given an artificial colostrum formula containing the combined fecal material from all eight sows. All piglets were killed at 21 d of age and intestinal contents subjected to 16s rRNA gene-based terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiling. Resulting T-RFLP profiles clustered into two distinct groups representing the two treatment groups. Furthermore, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity distance values and Dice similarity indices showed reduced beta diversity in isolator-reared pigs indicating animal-to-animal variation was reduced in isolator-reared compared to conventional piglets. However, surprisingly, increased alpha diversity was observed in isolator-reared piglets compared with conventional piglets. In conclusion, the study demonstrated that rearing of piglets under conditions of controlled environment reduced animal-to-animal variation in the hindgut microbiota while paradoxically increasing within animal microbial diversity. Isolator rearing may be useful as a model to improve detection of treatment effects on gut microbiota.		[Kiros, Tadele G.; Van Kessel, Andrew] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Anim & Poultry Sci, 51 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A8, Canada; [Pinloche, Eric] Aberystwyth Univ, IBERS, Llanbadarn Campus, Aberystwyth SY23 3AL, Dyfed, Wales; [D'Inca, Romain; Auclair, Eric] SI Lesaffre, Phileo Lesaffre Anim Care, 137 Rue Gabriel Peri, F-59700 Marcq En Baroeul, France; [Van Kessel, Andrew] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Anim & Poultry Sci, 51 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A8, Canada								2							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000442787300009		
J	Le Coz, M.; Chambord, S.; Souissi, S.; Meire, P.; Ovaert, J.; Buffan-Dubau, E.; Prygiel, J.; Azemar, F.; Sossou, A. C.; Lamothe, S.; Julien, F.; Ouddane, B.; Net, S.; Dumoulin, D.; Tackx, M.								Are zooplankton communities structured by taxa ecological niches or by hydrological features?								ECOHYDROLOGY				11	5					e1956	10.1002/eco.1956			JUL 2018	2018	This study aimed to clarify the mechanisms that structure zooplankton communities in a lowland river network. Fourteen stations on the Scheldt upper river basin (France/Belgium) were sampled during 4 campaigns in 2014-2015. Firstly, a niche analysis of zooplankton taxa was conducted for April and September 2014 using the outlying mean index (OMI) ordination technique. Then, application of Hutchinson's niche and of Hubbell's neutral theories to zooplankton community of the river network was tested for April and June 2015. We subsequently tested whether the taxa ecological preferences revealed were reflected in the April and June 2015 zooplankton spatial distributions. In April 2015, zooplankton community dissimilarity (Bray-Curtis distance) was more influenced by environmental conditions than by hydrological distance, in accordance with niche theory. In June 2015, a stronger influence of neutral processes was suggested by an important role of hydrology. In 2014 samples, 17 over 32 taxa presented significant marginality relying on the considered environmental parameters. This specialization was reflected in the 2015 community patterns, particularly in April. During this month, local environmental parameters were more influencing than hydrology, probably related to a higher environmental heterogeneity than in June 2015. Although zooplankters are often considered to be generalists and opportunists, mainly dependent of river hydrology, these results showed that even for passive dispersers in highly connected systems, niche processes contribute to community structuring by local filtering. Determination of species niche parameters is thus important to understand observed community patterns but also changes in species distribution relative to environmental and hydrological changes.		[Le Coz, M.; Chambord, S.; Ovaert, J.; Buffan-Dubau, E.; Azemar, F.; Sossou, A. C.; Lamothe, S.; Julien, F.; Tackx, M.] Univ Toulouse, CNRS, EcoLab, INPT,UPS, Toulouse, France; [Le Coz, M.; Chambord, S.; Souissi, S.] Univ Littoral Cote dOpale, Univ Lille, CNRS, UMR 8187,LOG, F-62930 Wimereux, France; [Chambord, S.; Meire, P.] Univ Antwerp, ECOBE Ecosyst Management Res Grp, Dept Biol, Univ Pl 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium; [Prygiel, J.] Agence Eau Artois Picardie, 200 Rue Marceline, F-59500 Douai, France; [Prygiel, J.; Ouddane, B.; Net, S.; Dumoulin, D.] Univ Lille 1 Sci & Technol, LASIR Lab Spectrochim Infrarouge & Raman, UMR 8516, Batiment C8, F-59655 Villeneuve Dascq, France; [Le Coz, M.] Univ Paul Sabatier, Lab EcoLab, UMR 5245, Ecol Fonct & Environm, Bat 4R1,118 Route Narbonne, F-31062 Toulouse 9, France								6							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000437275000005		
J	Roden, Vanessa Julie; Kocsis, Adam T.; Zuschin, Martin; Kiessling, Wolfgang								Reliable estimates of beta diversity with incomplete sampling								ECOLOGY				99	5			1051	1062		10.1002/ecy.2201			MAY 2018	2018	Beta diversity, the compositional variation among communities or assemblages, is crucial to understanding the principles of diversity assembly. The mean pairwise proportional dissimilarity expresses overall heterogeneity of samples in a data set and is among the most widely used and most robust measures of beta diversity. Obtaining a complete list of taxa and their abundances requires substantial taxonomic expertise and is time consuming. In addition, the information is generally incomplete due to sampling biases. Based on the concept of the ecological significance of dominant taxa, we explore whether determining proportional dissimilarity can be simplified based on dominant species. Using simulations and six case studies, we assess the correlation between complete community compositional data and reduced subsets of a varying number of dominant species. We find that gross beta diversity is usually depicted accurately when only the 80th percentile or five of the most abundant species of each site is considered. In data sets with very high evenness, at least the 10 most abundant species should be included. Focusing on dominant species also maintains the rank-order of beta diversity among sites. Our new approach will allow ecologists and paleobiologists to produce a far greater amount of data on diversity patterns with less time and effort, supporting conservation studies and basic science.		[Roden, Vanessa Julie; Kocsis, Adam T.; Kiessling, Wolfgang] Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, GeoZentrum Nordbayern, Sect Palaeobiol, Loewenichstr 28, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany; [Zuschin, Martin] Univ Vienna, Dept Palaeontol, Althanstr 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Roden, Vanessa Julie] Univ Erlangen Nurnberg, GeoZentrum Nordbayern, Sect Palaeobiol, Loewenichstr 28, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany								20							Ecology	WOS:000431987600007		
J	Higuchi, Pedro; da Silva, Ana Carolina; Spiazzi, Fabio Rodrigues; Negrini, Marcelo; Rafaeli Neto, Silvio Luis; Bento, Marco Antonio; Mores, Diego Felipe; de Aguiar, Manoela Drews; Buzzi Junior, Fernando; da Silva, Andre Leonardo								LANDSCAPE ELEMENTS AS A SOURCE OF FLORISTIC-STRUCTURAL HETEROGENEITY OF THE TREE COMPONENT IN AN AREA OF OMBROPHILOUS MIXED FOREST								CIENCIA FLORESTAL				28	2			661	673		10.5902/1980509832061			APR-JUN 2018	2018	This study aimed to test the hypothesis that different landscape elements, such as corridors, connected and non-connected forest fragments, have a tree component with floristic-structural differences. For this sake, the tree component of a fragment-corridor system was sampled by permanent plots (10 x 20 m), totaling an area of 1.4 ha. Within the plots, tree individuals with the circumference at breast height (cbh) greater than 15.7 cm, which botanical identities were determined in the field, were sampled and counted. The landscapes metrics (fragment size area, nearest neighbor distance and edge-interior relation) were extracted from a LANDSAT image, by FRAGSTAT software. The organization and richness of the tree component in the landscape were analyzed through Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS), non-parametric multivariate variance analysis (NPMANOVA), Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities indices, rarefaction, Venn diagram and indicator species analysis. Three non-connected fragments, two connected fragments and two forest corridors were recognized. In these landscape elements, a total of 84 species, 60 genera and 36 botanical families were found. The most floristically distinctive landscape element was the corridor. The hypothesis that the different landscape elements have a tree component with floristic-structural differences was accepted, supporting the idea that the spatial organization of forest fragments and corridors is relevant for the organization of tree vegetation in a landscape scale.		[Higuchi, Pedro; da Silva, Ana Carolina; Spiazzi, Fabio Rodrigues; Negrini, Marcelo; Bento, Marco Antonio; Mores, Diego Felipe; de Aguiar, Manoela Drews; Buzzi Junior, Fernando; da Silva, Andre Leonardo] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Engn Florestal, Av Luiz Camoes 2090, BR-88520000 Lages, SC, Brazil; [Rafaeli Neto, Silvio Luis] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Engn Ambiental, Av Luiz Camoes 2090, BR-88520000 Lages, SC, Brazil; [Higuchi, Pedro] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Engn Florestal, Av Luiz Camoes 2090, BR-88520000 Lages, SC, Brazil								1							Plant Sciences; Forestry	WOS:000442771800019		
J	Schroeder, P. Jason; Jenkins, David G.								How robust are popular beta diversity indices to sampling error?								ECOSPHERE				9	2					e02100	10.1002/ecs2.2100			FEB 2018	2018	Beta diversity (beta) is used in biogeography, ecology, and conservation to assess the heterogeneity of local communities. Ideally, researchers could include sensitivity to error in the list of reasons to choose a beta index. However, only numerical undersampling has been rigorously studied. This study compared multiple beta indices to determine which are most robust to geographic undersampling, numerical undersampling, and taxonomic error using simulated landscapes. For these landscapes, eight beta indices were chosen to represent families of beta and used to measure real and errant data. Six indices used both presence-absence and abundance data, while two more used only abundance data. Six of the abundance-based indices had adjusted versions for individual undersampling, and these versions were also evaluated (total = 14 indices). Presence-absence-and abundance-based indices were comparable in sensitivity to total method error. Numerical undersampling and taxonomic error generally caused more error in beta than randomly distributed geographic undersampling. Among presence-absence-based indices, Jaccard's dissimilarity was the most robust to error overall, while b-3 was the most robust among narrow-sense measures. Among abundance-based indices, Bray-Curtis and BDTOTAL were the most robust to error. Some commonly used beta indices (e.g., Sorensen, Simpson) are relatively unreliable given errors of taxonomy or numerical undersampling. Future studies of beta should focus on using more robust indices (Jaccard, Bray-Curtis, BDTOTAL), and past studies based on error-sensitive indices should be considered with caution. Studies of beta should emphasize adequate numerical sampling and taxonomic accuracy to minimize errors in beta.		[Schroeder, P. Jason; Jenkins, David G.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Biol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Schroeder, P. Jason] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Biol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								69							Ecology	WOS:000427091200027		
J	Jones, Auriane G.; Dubois, Stanislas F.; Desroy, Nicolas; Fournier, Jerome								Interplay between abiotic factors and species assemblages mediated by the ecosystem engineer <i>Sabellaria alveolata</i> (Annelida: Polychaeta)								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				200				1	18		10.1016/j.ecss.2017.10.001			JAN 5 2018	2018	Sabellaria alveolata is a gregarious polychaete that uses sand particles to build three-dimensional structures known as reefs, fixed atop rocks or built on soft sediments. These structures are known to modify the local grain-size distribution and to host a highly diversified macrofauna, altered when the reef undergoes disturbances. The goal of this study was to investigate the different sedimentary and biological changes associated with the presence of a S. alveolata reef over two contrasting seasons (late winter and late summer), and how these changes were linked. Three different sediments were considered: the engineered sediment (the actual reef), the associated sediment (the soft sediment surrounding the reef structures) and a control soft sediment (i.e. no reef structures in close proximity). Univariate and multivariate comparisons of grain-size distribution, soft sediment characteristics (organic matter content, chlorophyll a, pheopigments and carbohydrate concentrations) and macro fauna were conducted between the different sediment types at both seasons and between the two seasons for each sediment type. A distance-based redundancy analyses (dbRDA) was used to investigate the link between the different environmental parameters and the macrofauna assemblages. Finally, we focused on a disturbance continuum of the engineered sediments proxied by an increase in the mud present in these sediments. The effects of a continuous and increasing disturbance on the associated fauna were investigated using pairwise beta diversity indices (Sorensen and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities and their decomposition into turnover and nestedness). Results showed a significant effect of the reef on the local sediment distribution (coarser sediments compared to the control) and on the benthic primary production (higher in the associated sediments). At both seasons, S. alveolata biomass and sediment principal mode were the environmental parameters which best differentiated the engineered, associated and control sediment assemblages. These two parameters are under the ecosystem engineer's influence stressing its importance in structuring benthic macrofauna. Furthermore, in late summer but not in late winter, presence/absence and abundance-based beta diversity were positively correlated to our disturbance proxy (mud content) a tendency driven by a species replacement and a rise in the associated fauna density. Our first set of results highlight the importance of S. alveolata reefs as benthic primary production enhancers via their physical structure and their biological activity. The results obtained using beta diversity indices emphasize the importance of recruitment in structuring the reefs macrofauna and - paradoxically - the ecological value of S. alveolata degraded forms as biodiversity and recruitment promoters. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jones, Auriane G.; Dubois, Stanislas F.] IFREMER, Ctr Bretagne, DYNECO LEBCO, F-29280 Plouzane, France; [Jones, Auriane G.; Desroy, Nicolas] IFREMER, Environm & Ressources Bretagne Nord, 38 Rue Port Blanc,BP 80108, F-35801 Dinard, France; [Jones, Auriane G.; Fournier, Jerome] CNRS, UMR BOREA 7208, 61 Rue Buffon,CP 53, F-75231 Paris 05, France; [Fournier, Jerome] MNHN, Stn Biol Marine, BP 225,291B2, Concarneau, France; [Jones, Auriane G.] IFREMER, Ctr Bretagne, DYNECO, Lab Ecol Benth Cotiere LEBCO,ZI Pointe Diable, CS 10070, F-29280 Plouzane, France								36							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000424308600001		
J	Derrien, Morgane; Lee, Yun Kyung; Shin, Kyung-Hoon; Hur, Jin								Comparing discrimination capabilities of fluorescence spectroscopy versus FT-ICR-MS for sources and hydrophobicity of sediment organic matter								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				25	2			1892	1902		10.1007/s11356-017-0531-z			JAN 2018	2018	Characterizing the chemical and molecular composition of sediment organic matter (SeOM) provides critical information for a complete picture of global carbon and nutrient cycles, and helps to track the sources and the fate of organic carbon in aquatic environments. In this study, we examined fluorescence properties and the molecular composition of the alkaline-extractable organic matter (AEOM) of sediments in a coastal lake (Lake Sihwa) and its surrounding creeks (rural, urban, wetland, and industrial areas). Five fluorescence-based indices and 20 molecular parameters were selected from fluorescence spectroscopy and Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FT-ICRMS), respectively, and utilized to discriminate the AEOM among five different sources as well as the chemical composition of hydrophobic acid (HoA) and hydrophilic (Hi) fractions. Ordination based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices showed that the fluorescence-based indices distinguished among urban, lake, and the three other sources, while the molecular parameters from FT-ICR-MS performed better in discriminating among the sources of rural, wetland, and industrial areas. Irrespective of the sources, the two different chemical fractions were statistically distinguished by their relative distributions of the UVA-humic-like fluorescent component and the carbohydrate molecular group. However, a rigorous test based on percent dissimilarities indicated no superior capability of either of the two tools in discriminating the sources or their two chemical fractions, which might be attributed to the inherent structural heterogeneity of SeOM and the limited analytical window of FT-ICR-MS for relatively large-sized molecules.		[Derrien, Morgane; Lee, Yun Kyung; Hur, Jin] Sejong Univ, Environm & Energy Dept, Seoul 05006, South Korea; [Shin, Kyung-Hoon] Hanyang Univ, Dept Environm Marine Sci, Ansan 15588, Gyeonggi Do, South Korea; [Hur, Jin] Sejong Univ, Environm & Energy Dept, Seoul 05006, South Korea								11							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000419944100081		
J	Kaur, Jaspreet; Poff, Kirsten E.; Sharma, Jyotsna								A rare temperate terrestrial orchid selects similar Tulasnella taxa in ex situ and in situ environments								PLANT ECOLOGY				219	1			45	55		10.1007/s11258-017-0776-0			JAN 2018	2018	Mycorrhizal symbiosis in orchids is unique in that fungal presence is considered a requirement for germination as well as for further development. Additionally, orchid fungal associations can exhibit high specificity in nature. Yet, an important ecological question remains unanswered: 'With which orchid mycorrhizal fungi (OMF) do un-inoculated orchid seedlings form symbiosis when cultured ex situ?' Simultaneously, it is asserted that orchid conservation efforts involving ex situ plant culture should exclusively utilize natural symbionts of the respective orchid taxa. We present a first comparison of OMF communities within the roots of asymbiotically cultured plants of the rare orchid Platanthera chapmanii grown ex situ (ES), and those occurring naturally in situ (IS). Nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrITS) barcoding region was used to identify peloton forming OMF from roots collected between 2012 and 2014 from both growing environments. Our 114 sequences clustered into 11 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) belonging to four closely related clades of the fungal family Tulasnellaceae. Shannon-Wiener (H) and Simpson diversity (D) indices were similar (p = 0.81 for both) for ES and IS OMF communities. Beta diversity comparisons also showed similarity between ES and IS treatments based on weighted (p = 0.10) and unweighted (p = 0.20) Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices. Bayesian and Maximum Likelihood (ML) phylograms clustered ES and IS derived fungal OTUs into the same clades. Our data suggest that P. chapmanii: (1) forms symbiosis with taxonomically similar fungi in ex situ culture and in its native soil, and (2) exhibits a narrow phylogenetic breadth of mycorrhizal fungal OTUs within the Tulasnellaceae.		[Kaur, Jaspreet; Poff, Kirsten E.; Sharma, Jyotsna] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA; [Sharma, Jyotsna] Texas Tech Univ, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, Lubbock, TX 79409 USA								8							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000419386300004		
J	Wallis, Christine I. B.; Brehm, Gunnar; Donoso, David A.; Fiedler, Konrad; Homeier, Juergen; Paulsch, Detlev; Suessenbach, Dirk; Tiede, Yvonne; Brandl, Roland; Farwig, Nina; Bendix, Joerg								Remote sensing improves prediction of tropical montane species diversity but performance differs among taxa								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				83				538	549		10.1016/j.ecolind.2017.01.022			DEC 2017	2017	Texture information from passive remote sensing images provides surrogates for habitat structure, which is relevant for modeling biodiversity across space and time and for developing effective ecological indicators. However, the applicability of this information might differ among taxa and diversity measures. We compared the ability of indicators developed from texture analysis of remotely sensed images to predict species richness and species turnover of six taxa (trees, pyraloid moths, geometrid moths, arctiinae moths, ants, and birds) in a megadiverse Andean mountain rainforest ecosystem. Partial least-squares regression models were fitted using 12 predictors that characterize the habitat and included three topographical metrics derived from a high-resolution digital elevation model and nine texture metrics derived from very high-resolution multi-spectral orthophotos. We calculated image textures derived from mean, correlation, and entropy statistics within a relatively broad moving window (102 m x 102 m) of the near infra-red band and two vegetation indices. The model performances of species richness were taxon dependent, with the lowest predictive power for arctiinae moths (4%) and the highest for ants (78%). Topographical metrics sufficiently modeled species richness of pyraloid moths and ants, while models for species richness of trees, geometrid moths, and birds benefited from texture metrics. When more complexity was added to the model such as additional texture statistics calculated from a smaller moving window (18 m x 18 m), the predictive power for trees and birds increased significantly from 12% to 22% and 13% to 27%, respectively. Gradients of species turnover, assessed by non-metric two-dimensional scaling (NMDS) of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities, allowed the construction of models with far higher predictability than species richness across all taxonomic groups, with predictability for the first response variable of species turnover ranging from 64% (birds) to 98% (trees) of the explained change in species composition, and predictability for the second response variable of species turnover ranging from 33% (trees) to 74% (pyraloid moths). The two NMDS axes effectively separated compositional change along the elevational gradient, explained by a combination of elevation and texture metrics, from more subtle, local changes in habitat structure surrogated by varying combinations of texture metrics. The application of indicators arising from texture analysis of remote sensing images differed among taxa and diversity measures. However, these habitat indicators improved predictions of species diversity measures of most taxa, and therefore, we highly recommend their use in biodiversity research. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wallis, Christine I. B.; Tiede, Yvonne; Farwig, Nina] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Biol, Conservat Ecol, Karl von Frisch Str 8, D-35043 Marburg, Germany; [Wallis, Christine I. B.; Bendix, Joerg] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Geog, Lab Climatol & Remote Sensing, Deutschhausstr 12, D-35032 Marburg, Germany; [Brehm, Gunnar] Friedrich Schiller Univ Jena, Phyletischem Museum, Inst Spezielle Zool & Evolutionsbiol, Erbertstra 1, D-07743 Jena, Germany; [Donoso, David A.] Univ Tecn Particular Loja, Museo Colecc Biol MUTPL, San Cayetano Alto S-N, Loja, Ecuador; [Fiedler, Konrad] Univ Vienna, Dept Bot & Biodivers Res, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria; [Homeier, Juergen] Univ Gottingen, Albrecht von Haller Inst Plant Sci, Plant Ecol, Untere Karspule 2, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany; [Paulsch, Detlev] Gesell Angew Okol & Umweltplanung mbH, Impexstr 5, D-69190 Walldorf, Germany; [Suessenbach, Dirk] Fed Environm Agcy, Worlitzer Pl 1, D-06844 Dessau Rosslau, Germany; [Brandl, Roland] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, Anim Ecol, Karl von Frisch Str 8, D-35043 Marburg, Germany; [Donoso, David A.] Escuela Politec Nacl, Inst Ciencias Biol, Av Ladron Guevara E11-253,Apartado 17-01-2759, Quito, Ecuador; [Donoso, David A.] Escuela Politec Nacl, Museo Hist Nat, Av Ladron Guevara E11-253,Apartado 17-01-2759, Quito, Ecuador; [Wallis, Christine I. B.] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Biol, Conservat Ecol, Karl von Frisch Str 8, D-35043 Marburg, Germany; [Wallis, Christine I. B.] Philipps Univ Marburg, Fac Geog, Lab Climatol & Remote Sensing, Deutschhausstr 12, D-35032 Marburg, Germany								30							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000417551800052		
J	Parthasarathy, G.; Chen, J.; Chia, N.; O'Connor, H. M.; Gaskins, H. R.; Bharucha, A. E.								Reproducibility of assessing fecal microbiota in chronic constipation								NEUROGASTROENTEROLOGY AND MOTILITY				29	10					e13172	10.1111/nmo.13172			OCT 2017	2017	Background: While limited data suggest that the fecal microbiota in healthy people is stable over time, the intraindividual variability of the fecal microbiota in constipated patients is unknown. Methods: This study evaluated the intraindividual reproducibility of fecal microbiota analyzed with 16S rRNA gene sequencing in two stool samples collected without and after a laxative, respectively, in 25 healthy people and 25 constipated women. Participants completed a food record for 3 d before the stool collection. Colonic transit was measured with scintigraphy. Key Results: The constipated patients were older (48 +/- 15 vs 39 +/- 10 y, P=. 02) than healthy participants but had a similar BMI. The total daily caloric intake was less (P=. 005) in constipated (1265 +/- 350 kcal) than healthy participants (1597 +/- 402 kcal). Fourteen patients but only two controls (P<. 005), had delayed colonic transit. For most measures of alpha (eg, Observed OTU number, Shannon index) and beta diversity (eg, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, UniFrac, phyla level abundance), the ICCs between two stool samples were high, indicating moderate or strong agreement, and similar in healthy people and constipated patients. The ICC for the weighted UniFrac distance, which is weighted by abundance, was lower than its unweighted counterpart, indicating that the unweighted measure is more robust and reproducible. Conclusions and Inferences: The intraindividual reproducibility of fecal microbiota in constipated patients is high and comparable to healthy participants. For most purposes, evaluating the fecal microbiota in a single stool sample should generally suffice in adequately powered studies of healthy and constipated patients.		[Parthasarathy, G.; Bharucha, A. E.] Mayo Clin, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Dept Med, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Chen, J.; Chia, N.] Mayo Clin, Div Biomed Stat & Informat, Dept Hlth Sci Res, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Chen, J.; Chia, N.] Mayo Clin, Ctr Individualized Med, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [O'Connor, H. M.] Mayo Clin, Clin Res & Trials Unit, Ctr Clin & Translat Sci, Rochester, MN 55905 USA; [Gaskins, H. R.] Univ Illinois, Carl R Woese Inst Genom Biol, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Bharucha, A. E.] Mayo Clin, Rochester, MN 55905 USA								11							Gastroenterology & Hepatology; Clinical Neurology; Neurosciences	WOS:000410149700011		
J	Greenacre, Michael								Ordination with any dissimilarity measure: a weighted Euclidean solution								ECOLOGY				98	9			2293	2300		10.1002/ecy.1937			SEP 2017	2017	The classical approach to ordination is to use variants of the Euclidean distance to measure differences between samples (e.g., sites in a community study) based on their observation vectors (e.g., abundance counts for a set of species). Examples include Euclidean distance on standardized or log-transformed data, on which principal component analysis and redundancy analysis are based; chi-square distance, on which (canonical) correspondence analysis is based; and Hellinger distance, using square roots of relative values in each multivariate vector. Advantages of the Euclidean approach include the neat decomposition of variance and the ordination's optimal biplot display. To extend this approach to any non-Euclidean or non-metric dissimilarity, a simple solution is proposed, consisting of the estimation of a weighted Euclidean distance that optimally approximates the dissimilarities. This preliminary step preserves the good properties of the classical approach while giving two additional benefits as by-products. Firstly, the estimated species weights, quantifying each species' contribution to the dissimilarities, can be interpreted, and weights equal or close to zero can assist in variable selection. Secondly, the dimensionality remains that of the number of species, not the dimensionality inherent in the dissimilarities, which depends on the number of samples and can be considerably higher.		[Greenacre, Michael] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Business, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Greenacre, Michael] Barcelona Grad Sch Econ, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Greenacre, Michael] Akvaplan Niva, FRAM, High North Res Ctr Climate & Environm, N-9296 Tromso, Norway; [Greenacre, Michael] Univ Pompeu Fabra, Dept Econ & Business, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Greenacre, Michael] Barcelona Grad Sch Econ, Ramon Trias Fargas 25-27, Barcelona 08005, Spain; [Greenacre, Michael] Akvaplan Niva, FRAM, High North Res Ctr Climate & Environm, N-9296 Tromso, Norway								10							Ecology	WOS:000408836600008		
J	Mura-Meszaros, Anna; Magyar, Donat								Fungal Honeydew Elements as Potential Indicators of the Botanical and Geographical Origin of Honeys								FOOD ANALYTICAL METHODS				10	9			3079	3087		10.1007/s12161-017-0862-x			SEP 2017	2017	The present study applied indicator value analysis as a novel approach to estimate honey authenticity: microscopic indicators of honey origin were identified based on the distinct fungal content of honeys from different sources. The abundance and the IndVal index of 34 selected fungal spore types were quantified in 82 melissopalynological honey samples originating from various honeydew (Pinus, Abies) or nectar sources using multivariate statistical approaches. A dissimilarity matrix of honey samples was obtained by computing Bray-Curtis coefficients, and the distances were visualized using non-metric multidimensional scaling. K-means clustering was applied to sample coordinates to create a classification based on the frequency of selected fungal taxa. Strikingly, the resulting clusters were on a high level of agreement with the melissopalynological or geographical classification of samples. Various fungal taxa were shown to characterize groups of honey samples with a significant indicator value: floral honeys (Metschnikowia reukaufii), Pinus honeydew honeys (Capnobotrys sp., Antennatula sp.), Abies honeydew honeys from Greece (staurospore and scolecospore types) and honeydew honeys from Italy (Tripospermum spp. and Excipularia fusispora). Having revealed that the mere presence of distinct fungal taxa can indicate differences in the botanical and geographical source of honeys, the present findings encourage the confirmation of honey origin also by recording the occurrence of given honeydew elements during routine melissopalynological analysis.		[Mura-Meszaros, Anna] Hans Knoell Inst, Leibniz Inst Nat Prod Res & Infect Biol, Beutenbergstr 11a, D-07745 Jena, Germany; [Mura-Meszaros, Anna] Fritz Lipmann Inst Jena, Leibniz Inst Aging, Beutenbergstr 11, D-07745 Jena, Germany; [Magyar, Donat] Natl Publ Hlth Ctr, Dept Air Hyg & Aerobiol, Albert F Ut 2-6, H-1049 Budapest, Hungary; [Mura-Meszaros, Anna] Hans Knoell Inst, Leibniz Inst Nat Prod Res & Infect Biol, Beutenbergstr 11a, D-07745 Jena, Germany; [Mura-Meszaros, Anna] Fritz Lipmann Inst Jena, Leibniz Inst Aging, Beutenbergstr 11, D-07745 Jena, Germany								7							Food Science & Technology	WOS:000406652500017		
J	Chaudhuri, Sriroop; Roy, Mimi								Rural-urban spatial inequality in water and sanitation facilities in India: A cross-sectional study from household to national level								APPLIED GEOGRAPHY				85				27	38		10.1016/j.apgeog.2017.05.003			AUG 2017	2017	A major obstacle for the developing nations to meeting the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG: 2015-2030) for WaSH (Water-Sanitation-Hygiene) is the appalling rural-urban inequality in infrastructural facilities that lead to regional/spatial differences in livelihood. In India, where about 70% of the population dwells in villages, rural-urban inequality can pose steep challenges to the authorities in their motto of ensuring improved water and sanitation for all. Cognizant of the need, the present study aimed to map nationwide rural-urban spatial inequalities for various WaSH infrastructural facilities along a four-tier administrative hierarchy: household-district-state-national. Cross-sectional data for district-wise percentages of rural and urban households having access to (i) latrine facility within premises, (ii) treated tap water, (iii) improved water source, and (iv) at-home water source were obtained from the Census of India database for 2011. A variety of metrices (Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index (BCDI), Gini coefficient, Moran'', LISA) were used to characterize underlying spatial patterns. Rural-urban spatial inequality in 'treated tap water' appeared as the most spatially variable WaSH parameter across the nation. Results indicated that governmental claims of having met the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) for 'improved' water source require a thorough reappraisal, especially for rural India, as majority of these so called improved sources thrive on groundwater (hand pump+tube well), which is heavily contaminated by co-occurrences of multiple pollutants (fluoride, arsenic, nitrate, salinity), which have grave human health effects, and thus questioning the fundamental premise of 'safe water'. About 54% of the rural households in India rely on groundwater sources as compared to <20% urban households. In addition, about 67% of rural, against about 12% urban, households still 'indulge' in open defecation practices, which calls for stringent management actions coupled with strategic awareness campaigns. Rural-urban inequality in WaSH facilities appeared most alarming across the central Indian states of Chattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Overall, spatial heterogeneity in the rural-urban inequality appeared a daunting challenge for the authorities, urging for spatially-optimized policy reforms instead of enacting nationwide uniform policy measures. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chaudhuri, Sriroop; Roy, Mimi] OP Jindal Global Univ, Jindal Sch Liberal Arts & Humanities, Ctr Environm Sustainabiliry & Human Dev CESH, Sonipat 131001, Haryana, India; [Chaudhuri, Sriroop] OP Jindal Global Univ, Jindal Sch Liberal Arts & Humanities, Ctr Environm Sustainabiliry & Human Dev CESH, Sonipat 131001, Haryana, India								40							Geography	WOS:000407525200003		
J	Farooq, N.; Qamar, N.; Panhwar, S. K.								Characterization of feeding habits, prey diversity and diet overlap of two sympatric species: Bronze catfish, <i>Netuma bilineata</i> (Valenciennes, 1840) and blacktip sea catfish, <i>Plicofollis dussumieri</i> (Valenciennes, 1840) in the northern Arabian Sea								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ICHTHYOLOGY				33	4			709	719		10.1111/jai.13377			AUG 2017	2017	This study describes the diet composition, diet overlap and prey diversity in two economically and ecologically important marine catfish species: the bronze catfish (Netuma bilineata) and the blacktip sea catfish (Plicofollis dussumieri) collected between January and December 2015 from the northern Arabian Sea coast of Pakistan. Stomach data of 342 bronze catfish and 283 blacktip sea catfish were examined. Diet composition and feeding strategy of each species by identification of stomach contents were weighed and enumerated. Both species primarily consumed teleosts, Brachyura and small amounts of a wide variety of prey items; however, specialization was a more common trait for the bronze catfish than for the black tip sea catfish. The Morisita-Horn index showed considerable diet overlap in percentage of mean weights (0.847) than in numbers (0.612) between co-prey pairs of both species. The highest Bray-Curtis similarity between the southwest monsoon (SWM) and south inter monsoon (SIM) was observed in bronze catfish and lowest between autumn inter monsoon (AIM) seasons in both species. While Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was observed, both species share diet niches and diet overlap. The present study evaluation of the feeding strategy and potential competition between two sympatric species of marine catfishes can provide the framework for their conservation and management in the region.		[Farooq, N.; Qamar, N.; Panhwar, S. K.] Univ Karachi, Ctr Excellence Marine Biol, Sindh, Pakistan; [Panhwar, S. K.] Univ Karachi, Ctr Excellence Marine Biol, Sindh, Pakistan								4							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000405112800005		
J	Derrien, Morgane; Lee, Yun Kyung; Park, Jae-Eun; Li, Penghui; Chen, Meilian; Lee, Sang Hee; Lee, Soo Hyung; Lee, Jun-Bae; Hur, Jin								Spectroscopic and molecular characterization of humic substances (HS) from soils and sediments in a watershed: comparative study of HS chemical fractions and the origins								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				24	20			16933	16945		10.1007/s11356-017-9225-9			JUL 2017	2017	Optical properties and molecular composition of humic substances (HS) can provide valuable information on the sources and the history of the associated biogeochemical processes. In this study, many well-known spectral and molecular characteristics were examined in eight different HS samples, which were extracted from soils and sediments located in a forested watershed, via two advanced tools including fluorescence excitation emission matrix-parallel factor analysis (EEM-PARAFAC) and high-resolution Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FT-ICR MS). Two humic-like (C1 and C2) and one protein-like (C3) components were identified from EEM-PARAFAC. Irrespective of the origins, humic acid (HA) fractions were distinguished from fulvic acid (FA) fractions by the HS characteristics of specific UV absorbance (SUVA), the number of formulas, maximum fluorescence intensities of C1 and C2, condensed aromatics, tannins, and CHON, CHOS, and CHONS classes. In contrast, only five HS indices, including C3 intensity, H%, modified aromatic index (AI(mod)), the percentages of carbohydrates, and unsaturated hydrocarbons, were found to be significant factors in discriminating between the two HS origins (i.e., soils and sediments). The ordination of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix further confirmed that the HS chemical fraction (i.e., HA or FA) was the more important factor to determine the measured HS characteristics than the HS origin. Our results provided an in-depth insight into the chemical and structural heterogeneity of bulk HS, which could be even beyond the differences observed along the two HS origins. This study also delivers a cautious message that the two operationally defined HS chemical fractions should be carefully considered in tracking the origins of different HS samples.		[Derrien, Morgane; Lee, Yun Kyung; Li, Penghui; Chen, Meilian; Hur, Jin] Sejong Univ, Dept Environm & Energy, Seoul 05006, South Korea; [Park, Jae-Eun] Korea Basic Sci Inst, Res Grp Mass Spectrometry, Ochang 28119, Chungbuk, South Korea; [Lee, Sang Hee] NIER, Environm Measurement Anal Ctr, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Lee, Soo Hyung] NIER, Water Environm Engn Res Div, Incheon 22689, South Korea; [Lee, Jun-Bae] NIER, Geum River Water Environm Res Ctr, Okcheon 29029, Chungchung, South Korea; [Hur, Jin] Sejong Univ, Dept Environm & Energy, Seoul 05006, South Korea								38							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000405580000034		
J	Baselga, Andres								Partitioning abundance-basedmultiple-site dissimilarity into components: balanced variation in abundance and abundance gradients								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				8	7			799	808		10.1111/2041-210X.12693			JUL 2017	2017	1. Abundance-based assemblage dissimilarity can be partitioned into components accounting for (i) balanced variation in abundance, whereby the individuals of some species in one site are substituted by the same number of individuals of different species in another site, and (ii) abundance gradients, whereby some individuals are lost fromone site to the other. 2. Such amethod was available for pairwise dissimilarity, but not for multiple-site dissimilarity. 3. New multiple-site extensions of Bray-Curtis and Ruzicka indices based on the formulation of multiple-site analogues of matching components (i.e. the intersection and the relative complements among multiple sites in terms of species abundances) are introduced. 4. These new indices can be partitioned into balanced-variation and abundance-gradients components. 5. An example assessing multiple-site dissimilarity of birds and butterflies in a mosaic of habitats is shown to illustrate the usefulness of comparing incidence-and abundance-based multiple-site dissimilarity and its components to characterize biotic heterogeneity across multiple sites. 6. Themethodmay be generally useful when the question of interest is the overall abundance-based dissimilarity across multiple units (in space, time or other), as separating the balance-variation (i.e. substitution) and abundance-gradients (i.e. subsets) components of dissimilarity can shed light on the processes behind variation in species abundances.		[Baselga, Andres] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Biol, Dept Zool Genet & Antropol Fis, C Lope Gomez de Marzoa S-N, Santiago De Compostela 15782, Spain; [Baselga, Andres] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Biol, Dept Zool Genet & Antropol Fis, C Lope Gomez de Marzoa S-N, Santiago De Compostela 15782, Spain								163							Ecology	WOS:000405085800002		
J	Okuda, Takehiro; Kiyota, Masashi; Yonezaki, Shiroh; Murakami, Chisato; Kato, Yoshiki; Sakai, Mitsuo; Wakabayashi, Toshie; Okazaki, Makoto								Delineating the boundary and structure of higher trophic level assemblages in the western North Pacific Ocean								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				140				45	54		10.1016/j.dsr2.2016.11.013			JUN 2017	2017	Understanding the community structure of oceanic higher trophic level (HTL) organisms (e.g., sharks, tunas, salmons, and squids) is fundamental to management of marine resources in a way that ensures their sustainable use and maintains marine ecosystem functionality and biodiversity. We analyzed the spatial structure of HTL assemblages in the western North Pacific Ocean using driftnet survey data collected at latitudes of 35-46 degrees N along transect lines at 144 degrees E, 155 degrees E, and 175.5 degrees E longitude in July and August 2011. We proposed a new dissimilarity metric segmentation procedure (Dissimilarity Segmentation) based on the differences of mean Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices between two individual driftnet hauls within the same subarea or among different subareas. Dissimilarity Segmentation allowed us to divide the western North Pacific Ocean into three subareas: a northern subarea ( > 41 degrees N including 41 degrees N on the 175.5 degrees E transect), a transition subarea (37-41 N), and a southern subarea ( < 37 degrees N). The HTL biomass in the northern subarea was high, and the species diversity was low; dominant and common species accounted for most of the biomass. The HTL assemblage in the southern subarea was composed of many species that were uncommon or rare; the biomass was lower, and the species diversity was higher than in the northern subarea. In the transition subarea, neon flying squid accounted for most of the biomass, and although the biomass was intermediate, species diversity was highest among the three subareas. Canonical correspondence analysis with oceanic environmental variables, principally chlorophyll a, sea surface salinity, and sea surface height, as the explanatory variables accounted for 43.6% of the variance of the HTL pelagic species composition. This result suggests that the HTL pelagic community in the western North Pacific is influenced largely by productivity and oceanic physical structure. These results suggest that an analytical approach based on Dissimilarity Segmentation combined with medium- to long-term survey datasets could facilitate the investigation of spatial-temporal variations in the spatial structure of HTL pelagic communities and the environmental causes thereof.		[Okuda, Takehiro; Kiyota, Masashi; Yonezaki, Shiroh; Murakami, Chisato; Okazaki, Makoto] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Natl Res Inst Far Seas Fisheries, Kanazawa Ku, 2-12-4 Fukuura, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2368648, Japan; [Kato, Yoshiki; Sakai, Mitsuo] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Tohoku Natl Fisheries Res Inst, 25-259 Shimo Mekurakubo,Same Machi, Hachinohe, Aomori 0310841, Japan; [Wakabayashi, Toshie] Natl Fisheries Univ, Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, 2-7-1 Nagata Honmachi, Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi 7596595, Japan; [Kato, Yoshiki] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Marine Fisheries Res & Dev Ctr, Nishi Ku, 2-3-3 Minatomirai, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2206115, Japan; [Okuda, Takehiro] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Natl Res Inst Far Seas Fisheries, Kanazawa Ku, 2-12-4 Fukuura, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2368648, Japan				3rd Open Science Symposium of the Climate-Impacts-on-Oceanic-Top-Predators (CLIOTOP) Programme	SEP 14-18, 2015	Climate Impacts Ocean Top Predators	Donostia San Sebastian, SPAIN	2							Oceanography	WOS:000403513400006		
J	Gergoes, Veronika; Hufnagel, Levente								Comparing the natural variation of oribatid mite communities with their changes associated with anthropogenic disturbance								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				189	4					203	10.1007/s10661-017-5897-3			APR 2017	2017	Several organism communities serve as ecological and environmental indicators to detect changes in human-impacted habitats. However, the composition of indicator communities may vary because of natural variation in addition to the changes associated with human disturbances. This meta-analysis compared the natural variation of oribatid mite assemblages, a good indicator model group in soil ecosystems, with their deviations associated with disturbance using diversity and dissimilarity indices and three human disturbance types. Literature data were collected about oribatid mite assemblages from natural and disturbed habitats. Human disturbances consisted of agriculture, heavy metal pollution and forest management. Biodiversity indices (Shannon and Berger-Parker) and dissimilarity indices (Jaccard and Bray-Curtis) were calculated among natural habitats and between disturbed and control habitats at the species and genus level. We considered oribatid mite assemblages as effective community-level indicators when the methods separated the differences of assemblages between disturbed and control habitats from their varieties among natural habitats. In addition, the study analysed the correlation between these indices and environmental variables of the study sites. Oribatid mite assemblages performed high indication strength with Bray-Curtis index for agricultural disturbances since dissimilarity values between disturbed and control habitats were as high as between different natural habitats and higher than among the same types of natural habitats. Genus-level values showed similar results to the species level. This approach may be useful to test the effectiveness of other indicator groups and methods.		[Gergoes, Veronika] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Biol Inst, Hungarian Acad Sci, MTA ELTE MTM Ecol Res Grp, Pazmany Peter Setany 1-C, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary; [Hufnagel, Levente] Szent Istvan Univ, Lab Biometr & Quantitat Ecol, Inst Crop Prod, Fac Agr & Environm Sci, Pater Karoly Utca 1, H-2100 Godollo, Hungary; [Gergoes, Veronika] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Biol Inst, Hungarian Acad Sci, MTA ELTE MTM Ecol Res Grp, Pazmany Peter Setany 1-C, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary								8							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000398714200069		
J	Memona, H.; Manzoor, F.; Anjum, A. A.								Cockroaches (Blattodea: Blattidae): A Reservoir of Pathogenic Microbes in Human-Dwelling Localities in Lahore								JOURNAL OF MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY				54	2			435	440		10.1093/jme/tjw168			FEB 2017	2017	This study focuses on isolation of pathogenic bacteria from external and internal surfaces of cockroaches collected from houses and hospitals in Lahore. In total, 240 adult cockroaches were collected from houses and hospitals by hand or using sticky traps and food-bait traps. Cockroach species were identified, and microbial screening was done for external surfaces and gut tracts of cockroaches. Jaccard's index of similarity, BrayCurtis' index of dissimilarity, and Shannon-Wiener's diversity index were used to measure the bacterial community diversity (all species of bacteria) in each habitat. Relative abundance and frequency were measured for each bacterial species on external and internal surfaces of cockroaches. Among human habitations, two major species of cockroaches were isolated, i. e., Periplaneta americana (P. americana) and Blattella germanica (B. germanica). Out of 240 cockroaches collected, 167 were P. americana and 73 were B. germanica. In total, 11 bacterial species were isolated, but no different bacterial load in each habitat was observed. The most common diagnostic bacterium isolated from the external surface of cockroaches was found to be Escherichia coli (10.31%). In contrast, the most common isolate from the internal gut tract of cockroaches was found to be Pseudomonas aeruginosa, with relative frequency of 19.96%. Jaccard's index of similarity of bacterial species found on cockroaches was highest (0.3125) in houses, whereas Bray-Curtis' index of dissimilarity was highest for hospitals (0.2174). The highest Shannon-Wiener's diversity index value was found in bacteria on cockroaches collected from the Punjab Institute of Cardiology (2.610632). No Salmonella typhi, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Enterobacter aerogenes, and Streptococcus pneumonia were found in the digestive tract of any cockroach.		[Memona, H.; Manzoor, F.] Lahore Coll Women Univ, Dept Zool, Jail Rd, Lahore 54000, Pakistan; [Anjum, A. A.] Univ Vet & Anim Sci, Dept Microbiol, Outfall Rd, Lahore, Pakistan; [Memona, H.] Lahore Coll Women Univ, Dept Zool, Jail Rd, Lahore 54000, Pakistan								10							Entomology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000398103900024		
J	Lucas, Rico; Groeneveld, Jurgen; Harms, Hauke; Johst, Karin; Frank, Karin; Kleinsteuber, Sabine								A critical evaluation of ecological indices for the comparative analysis of microbial communities based on molecular datasets								FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY				93	1					fiw209	10.1093/femsec/fiw209			JAN 2017	2017	In times of global change and intensified resource exploitation, advanced knowledge of ecophysiological processes in natural and engineered systems driven by complex microbial communities is crucial for both safeguarding environmental processes and optimising rational control of biotechnological processes. To gain such knowledge, high-throughput molecular techniques are routinely employed to investigate microbial community composition and dynamics within a wide range of natural or engineered environments. However, for molecular dataset analyses no consensus about a generally applicable alpha diversity concept and no appropriate benchmarking of corresponding statistical indices exist yet. To overcome this, we listed criteria for the appropriateness of an index for such analyses and systematically scrutinised commonly employed ecological indices describing diversity, evenness and richness based on artificial and real molecular datasets. We identified appropriate indices warranting interstudy comparability and intuitive interpretability. The unified diversity concept based on 'effective numbers of types' provides the mathematical framework for describing community composition. Additionally, the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity as a beta-diversity index was found to reflect compositional changes. The employed statistical procedure is presented comprising commented R-scripts and example datasets for user-friendly trial application.		[Lucas, Rico; Harms, Hauke; Kleinsteuber, Sabine] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Environm Microbiol, Permoserstr 15, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany; [Groeneveld, Jurgen; Johst, Karin; Frank, Karin] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Ecol Modelling, Permoserstr 15, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany; [Groeneveld, Jurgen] Tech Univ Dresden, Inst Forest Growth & Comp Sci, PO 1117, D-01735 Tharandt, Germany; [Harms, Hauke; Frank, Karin] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Deutsch Pl 5e, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Kleinsteuber, Sabine] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Environm Microbiol, Permoserstr 15, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany								37							Microbiology	WOS:000397429600008		
J	Acikgoz, Halide Nihal; Kose, Serdal Kenan; Divrak, Duygu								Chemical meat bait traps versus basic meat bait traps in collection of adult flies								ENTOMOLOGICAL RESEARCH				47	1			21	27		10.1111/1748-5967.12187			JAN 2017	2017	The aim of the present study is to compare the effectiveness of chemical meat bait traps and basic meat bait traps for collecting adult flies. Bait traps used to collect these species can be damaged by anthropogenic or environmental effects. In this study, chemical meat bait traps and basic meat bait traps were hung from trees in the garden of the Ankara University Forensic Sciences Institute. This activity was carried out on the first Monday of each month for nine months. During the study, 1894 specimens were collected. Of all these species, 1787 (94.35%) were obtained from chemical meat bait traps (CMBTs), while 107 (5.65%) were obtained from basic meat bait traps (BMBTs). To determine the diversity of species in CMBT and BMBT sample groups in our study, Shannon Wiener and Simpson diversity and dominance indices were used. Shannon Evenness Index was calculated to determine the relationship between species community-density. Cluster analysis provided a summary of the similarity in species composition of different regions. The CMBT and BMBT trap groups similarity/dissimilarity feature was checked using Bray-Curtis cluster analysis. The number of species collected from CMBTs was considerably higher than in BMBTs. The results of this study will help researchers to save time. In addition, it should be kept in mind that thiamethoxam is harmful to the environment when it contaminates sources of water.		[Acikgoz, Halide Nihal] Ankara Univ, Forens Sci Inst, Dept Forens Biol, Ankara, Turkey; [Kose, Serdal Kenan] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biostat, Ankara, Turkey; [Divrak, Duygu] Trop Butterfly Garden, Selcuklu, Konya, Turkey; [Acikgoz, Halide Nihal] Ankara Univ, Forens Sci Inst, Dept Forens Biol, Adli Bilimler Enstitusu, Mamak Girisi 27, Ankara, Turkey								4							Entomology	WOS:000392809000004		
J	Godoy, Bruno Spacek; Queiroz, Luciano Lopes; Lodi, Sara; Nascimento de Jesus, Jhonathan Diego; Oliveira, Leandro Goncalves								Successional colonization of temporary streams: An experimental approach using aquatic insects								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				77				43	49		10.1016/j.actao.2016.08.010			NOV 2016	2016	The metacommunity concept studies the processes that structure communities on local and regional scales. This concept is useful to assess spatial variability. However, temporal patterns (e.g., ecological succession and colonization) are neglected in metacommunity studies, since such patterns require temporally extensive, and hard to execute studies. We used experimental habitats in temporary streams located within the Brazilian Cerrado to evaluate the importance of succession for the aquatic insect metacommunity. Five artificial habitats consisting of wrapped crushed rock were set transversally to the water flow in five streams. The habitats were sampled weekly to assess community composition, and replaced after sampling to identify new potential colonizers. We analyzed the accumulation of new colonizers after each week using a logistic model. We selected pairs of experimental habitats and estimated the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index to assess the community composition trajectory during the experiment We used the dissimilarity values in ANOVA tests, identifying the importance of time and space for the community. The number of new taxa stabilized in the third week, and we estimated a weekly increase of 1.61 new taxa in the community after stabilization. The overall pattern was a small change on community composition, but one stream had a higher weekly turnover. Our results showed a relevant influence of time in the initial communities of aquatic insects of temporary streams. However, we must observe the temporal pattern in a spatial context, once different streams have different successional history regarding number of taxa and community turnover. We highlight the importance of aerial dispersal and movement to seek oviposition sites as an important factor in determining colonization patterns. (C) 2016 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.		[Godoy, Bruno Spacek] Fed Univ Para, Nulceo Ciencias Agr & Desenvolvimento Rural, Rua Augusto Correa 01, BR-66075110 Belem, Para, Brazil; [Queiroz, Luciano Lopes] Nucleo Ecol Insetos, Hexapoda, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Nascimento de Jesus, Jhonathan Diego; Oliveira, Leandro Goncalves] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Ecol, Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Lodi, Sara] Fed Univ Para, Dept Ecol, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Godoy, Bruno Spacek] Fed Univ Para, Nulceo Ciencias Agr & Desenvolvimento Rural, Rua Augusto Correa 01, BR-66075110 Belem, Para, Brazil								3							Ecology	WOS:000389731600006		
J	Matteodo, Magali; Ammann, Klaus; Verrecchia, Eric Pascal; Vittoz, Pascal								Snowbeds are more affected than other subalpine-alpine plant communities by climate change in the Swiss Alps								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				6	19			6969	6982		10.1002/ece3.2354			OCT 2016	2016	While the upward shift of plant species has been observed on many alpine and nival summits, the reaction of the subalpine and lower alpine plant communities to the current warming and lower snow precipitation has been little investigated so far. To this aim, 63 old, exhaustive plant inventories, distributed along a subalpine-alpine elevation gradient of the Swiss Alps and covering different plant community types (acidic and calcareous grasslands; windy ridges; snow-beds), were revisited after 25-50 years. Old and recent inventories were compared in terms of species diversity with Simpson diversity and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices, and in terms of community composition with principal component analysis. Changes in ecological conditions were inferred from the ecological indicator values. The alpha-diversity increased in every plant community, likely because of the arrival of new species. As observed on mountain summits, the new species led to a homogenization of community compositions. The grasslands were quite stable in terms of species composition, whatever the bedrock type. Indeed, the newly arrived species were part of the typical species pool of the colonized community. In contrast, snowbed communities showed pronounced vegetation changes and a clear shift toward dryer conditions and shorter snow cover, evidenced by their colonization by species from surrounding grasslands. Longer growing seasons allow alpine grassland species, which are taller and hence more competitive, to colonize the snowbeds. This study showed that subalpine-alpine plant communities reacted differently to the ongoing climate changes. Lower snow/rain ratio and longer growing seasons seem to have a higher impact than warming, at least on plant communities dependent on long snow cover. Consequently, they are the most vulnerable to climate change and their persistence in the near future is seriously threatened. Subalpine and alpine grasslands are more stable, and, until now, they do not seem to be affected by a warmer climate.		[Matteodo, Magali; Verrecchia, Eric Pascal; Vittoz, Pascal] Univ Lausanne, Inst Earth Surface Dynam IDYST, Geopolis Bldg, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Ammann, Klaus] Univ Bern, Monruz 20, CH-2000 Neuchatel, Switzerland; [Matteodo, Magali] Univ Lausanne, Inst Earth Surface Dynam IDYST, Geopolis Bldg, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland								51							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000385626100018		
J	Chaudron, Clemence; Chauvel, Bruno; Isselin-Nondedeu, Francis								Effects of late mowing on plant species richness and seed rain in road verges and adjacent arable fields								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				232				218	226		10.1016/j.agee.2016.03.047			SEP 16 2016	2016	Delaying the first date of mowing of road verges is frequently practised as a way of preserving or enhancing biodiversity. Although the effects of this management practice on plant species richness remains controversial, it has been demonstrated that it allows more species to set seed. While an integrated management of the weed flora is currently promoted in arable fields adjacent to road verges, delaying the mowing of these field boundaries can be questioned, especially because seed dispersal from road verges to arable fields through field margins can be increased. In this context, the study aimed to assess the potential influence of delaying the first date of mowing of berms on (1) the species richness of berm standing vegetation (BSV), (2) the number of seeds and (3) the composition of seed rains in road verges and adjacent arable fields. To this end, we surveyed. the standing vegetation and seed rain in four areas, i.e. in the berm, embankment, crop edge and field margin from a total of 252 sampling points. First, we analysed the effect of the mowing period (i.e. early or late summer) on species richness of both BSV and berm seed rain. Then, at each sample point in the four areas, we studied the variation in (i) seed abundance (i.e. number of seeds), (ii) contribution of BSV to each seed rain (i.e. Sorensen's similarity and Bray-Curtis' dissimilarity indices between the BSV and each sample point) and (iii) seed abundance of the most frequent species recorded in BSV. Our findings showed that delaying the first mowing to late summer for four years had no impact on the species richness of BSV, while it increased species number and abundance of seeds in the berm seed rain. We also demonstrated that BSV of the late mown berms contributed more to the berm seed rain, than that of early mown berms. Moreover, our results suggest that compared to early mowing, only Dactylis glomerata dispersed more seeds from the late mown berms to field margins. Regarding the most frequent weed species observed in the BSV, for example Elytrigia repens, Arrhenatherum elatius and Convolvulus arvensis, the number of seeds trapped in field margins was low except for A. elatius. Finally, under our conditions, late mowing remained inefficient in promoting plant species richness on berms, but did not represent a particular factor of weed risk in field margins. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Chaudron, Clemence; Isselin-Nondedeu, Francis] Univ Tours, UMR 7324, CNRS, CITERES,IPAPE, 33 Ave Ferdinand de Lesseps, F-37200 Tours, France; [Chauvel, Bruno] INRA, Agroecol UMR1347, 17 Rue Sully,BP 86510, F-21065 Dijon, France; [Chaudron, Clemence] Univ Tours, UMR 7324, CNRS, CITERES,IPAPE, 33 Ave Ferdinand de Lesseps, F-37200 Tours, France								16							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000384384900022		
J	Pan, Yangdong; Wang, Lizhu; Cao, Yong; Pang, Wanting; Wang, Quanxi; Zhu, Zhongfu; Zhang, Xiaoping; Deng, Guiping								Variation of benthic algal assemblages among habitats in subalpine Karstic Lakes and implications for bioassessment								HYDROBIOLOGIA				777	1			183	196		10.1007/s10750-016-2775-x			SEP 2016	2016	Detecting early warning signs of ecosystem degradation in nature reserves requires ultrasensitive biological indicators. We assessed the potential of using multihabitat assessment of benthic algae (growing on submerged vegetation, rocks, and dead trees) to detect early warning signs of nutrient enrichment in nine karstic lakes in Jiuzhaigou Nature Reserve, a World Natural Heritage site in China. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that variability in benthic diatom assemblages among the major habitats within lakes were generally higher than among lakes. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance indicated that epiphytic diatom assemblages dominated by Achnanthidium minutissimum (Kutzing) Czarnecki differed significantly from both epilithic and epidendric assemblages. Epilithon and epidendron, both dominated by Delicata delicatula (Kutzing) Krammer and Denticula tenuis Kutzing, were not significantly different within lakes. Mean Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index values among the three assemblages in each lake were negatively correlated with the tourism-stress index but the correlation was not statistically significant. Increasing homogeneity in benthic diatom assemblages among habitats within a lake may be due to cumulative nutrient enrichment associated with tourism development. Links among tourisms, nutrient enrichment, and dissimilarity in benthic algae among habitats should be viewed with caution until the cause-effect relationships can be confirmed by in situ manipulative experiments.		[Pan, Yangdong] Portland State Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Management, Portland, OR 97207 USA; [Wang, Lizhu] Int Joint Commiss, Great Lakes Reg Off, Windsor, ON, Canada; [Cao, Yong] Univ Illinois, Champaign, IL USA; [Pang, Wanting; Wang, Quanxi] Shanghai Normal Univ, Coll Life & Environm Sci, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Zhongfu; Zhang, Xiaoping; Deng, Guiping] Jiuzhaigou Nat Reserve Adm Bur, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Deng, Guiping] Univ Michigan, Sch Nat Resource Environm, Ann Arbor, MI USA; [Pan, Yangdong] Portland State Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Management, Portland, OR 97207 USA								15							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000379019900014		
J	Teixeira, Daniella; Zischke, Mitchell T.; Webley, James A. C.								Investigating bias in recreational fishing surveys: Fishers listed in public telephone directories fish similarly to their unlisted counterparts								FISHERIES RESEARCH				181				127	136		10.1016/j.fishres.2016.04.012			SEP 2016	2016	Several recent offsite recreational fishing surveys have used public landline telephone directories as a sampling frame. Sampling biases inherent in this method are recognised, but are assumed to be corrected through demographic data expansion. However, the rising prevalence of mobile-only households has potentially increased these biases by skewing raw samples towards households that maintain relatively high levels of coverage in telephone directories. For biases to be corrected through demographic expansion, both the fishing participation rate and fishing activity must be similar among listed and unlisted fishers within each demographic group. In this study, we tested for a difference in the fishing activity of listed and unlisted fishers within demographic groups by comparing their avidity (number of fishing trips per year), as well as the platform used (boat or shore) and species targeted on their most recent fishing trip. 3062 recreational fishers were interviewed at 34 tackle stores across 12 residential regions of Queensland, Australia. For each fisher, data collected included their fishing avidity, the platform used and species targeted on their most recent trip, their gender, age, residential region, and whether their household had a listed telephone number. Although the most avid fishers were younger and less likely to have a listed phone number, cumulative link models revealed that avidity was not affected by an interaction of phone listing status, age group and residential region (p > 0.05). Likewise, binomial generalized linear models revealed that there was no interaction between phone listing, age group and avidity acting on platform (p > 0.05), and platform was not affected by an interaction of phone listing status, age group, and residential region (p> 0.05). Ordination of target species using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices found a significant but irrelevant difference (i.e. small effect size) between listed and unlisted fishers (ANOSIM R<0.05, p <0.05). These results suggest that, at this time, the fishing activity of listed and unlisted fishers in Queensland is similar within demographic groups. Future research seeking to validate the assumptions of recreational fishing telephone surveys should investigate fishing participation rates of listed and unlisted fishers within demographic groups. Crown Copyright (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Teixeira, Daniella; Zischke, Mitchell T.; Webley, James A. C.] Fisheries Queensland, Dept Agr & Fisheries, GPO Box 267, Brisbane, Qld 4001, Australia; [Zischke, Mitchell T.] Purdue Univ, Dept Forestry & Nat Resources, 195 Marsteller St, W Lafayette, IN 47907 USA; [Teixeira, Daniella] Fisheries Queensland, Dept Agr & Fisheries, GPO Box 267, Brisbane, Qld 4001, Australia								15							Fisheries	WOS:000378181900013		
J	Chao, Anne; Chiu, Chun-Huo								Bridging the variance and diversity decomposition approaches to beta diversity via similarity and differentiation measures								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				7	8			919	928		10.1111/2041-210X.12551			AUG 2016	2016	There are many concepts and measures of beta diversity and related similarity/differentiation indices. The variance framework (derived from the total variance of a community species abundance matrix) and diversity decomposition (based on partitioning gamma diversity into alpha and beta components) are two major approaches. There have been no bridges/links between the two approaches. Here, we establish a bridge by extending and modifying each approach so that both lead to the same classes of similarity/differentiation measures, which range in the interval [0, 1] and which can be compared across multiple sets of communities. Our extension/modification in each approach is based on the following major differences between the two approaches. (i) In the decomposition approach, a diversity order q that controls sensitivity to species abundances is used, whereas there is no such order involved in the variance approach. (ii) Transformations of raw abundances are typically used in the variance approach, whereas abundances are not transformed in diversity decomposition. (iii) The variance-based beta for non-transformed data is implicitly related to (and constrained by) alpha, gamma and total abundance. Namely, the attained maximum value of this beta when communities are completely distinct (no shared species) is not a fixed constant; the maximum varies with alpha, gamma and total abundance. By contrast, the beta component obtained from the multiplicative decomposition is not constrained by alpha, gamma and total abundance. To construct the bridge, we extend the variance of community data to a class of divergence measures (parameterized by an order q) and use normalization to remove these measures' constraints by alpha, gamma and total abundance. The resulting normalized divergence measures are legitimate differentiation measures. In the decomposition approach, we adopt a modified multiplicative decomposition scheme; the resulting beta component can be transformed to quantify compositional similarity/differentiation among communities. Then, the similarity/differentiation measures obtained from the extended variance framework turn out to be identical to those from the modified diversity decomposition, establishing the bridge. Other types of similarity/differentiation measures (e.g. N-community Bray-Curtis type) and extension to phylogenetic and functional versions are discussed. A real example using corals is given for illustration.		[Chao, Anne; Chiu, Chun-Huo] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan; [Chao, Anne] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan								60							Ecology	WOS:000382505900005		
J	Kambura, Anne Kelly; Mwirichia, Romano Kachiuru; Kasili, Remmy Wekesa; Karanja, Edward Nderitu; Makonde, Huxley Mae; Boga, Hamadi Iddi								Bacteria and Archaea diversity within the hot springs of Lake Magadi and Little Magadi in Kenya								BMC MICROBIOLOGY				16						136	10.1186/s12866-016-0748-x			JUL 7 2016	2016	Background: Lake Magadi and little Magadi are hypersaline, alkaline lakes situated in the southern part of Kenyan Rift Valley. Solutes are supplied mainly by a series of alkaline hot springs with temperatures as high as 86 degrees C. Previous culture-dependent and culture-independent studies have revealed diverse groups of microorganisms thriving under these conditions. Previous culture independent studies were based on the analysis of 16S rDNA but were done on less saline lakes. For the first time, this study combined illumina sequencing and analysis of amplicons of both total community rDNA and 16S rRNA cDNA to determine the diversity and community structure of bacteria and archaea within 3 hot springs of L. Magadi and little Magadi. Methods: Water, wet sediments and microbial mats were collected from springs in the main lake at a temperature of 45.1 degrees C and from Little Magadi "Nasikie eng'ida" (temperature of 81 degrees C and 83.6 degrees C). Total community DNA and RNA were extracted from samples using phenol-chloroform and Trizol RNA extraction protocols respectively. The 16S rRNA gene variable region (V4 - V7) of the extracted DNA and RNA were amplified and library construction performed following Illumina sequencing protocol. Sequences were analyzed done using QIIME while calculation of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities between datasets, hierarchical clustering, Non Metric Dimensional Scaling (NMDS) redundancy analysis (RDA) and diversity indices were carried out using the R programming language and the Vegan package. Results: Three thousand four hundred twenty-six and one thousand nine hundred thirteen OTUs were recovered from 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA cDNA respectively. Uncultured diversity accounted for 89.35 % 16S rDNA and 87.61 % 16S rRNA cDNA reads. The most abundant phyla in both the 16S rDNA and 16S rRNA cDNA datasets included: Proteobacteria (8.33-50 %), Firmicutes 3.52-28.92 %, Bacteroidetes (3.45-26.44 %), Actinobacteria (0.98-28.57 %) and Euryarchaeota (3.55-34.48 %) in all samples. NMDS analyses of taxonomic composition clustered the taxa into three groups according to sample types (i.e. wet sediments, mats and water samples) with evident overlap of clusters between wet sediments and microbial mats from the three sample types in both DNA and cDNA datasets. The hot spring (45.1 degrees C) contained less diverse populations compared to those in Little Magadi (81-83 degrees C). Conclusion: There were significant differences in microbial community structure at 95 % level of confidence for both total diversity (P value, 0.009) based on 16S rDNA analysis and active microbial diversity (P value, 0.01) based on 16S rRNA cDNA analysis, within the three hot springs. Differences in microbial composition and structure were observed as a function of sample type and temperature, with wet sediments harboring the highest diversity.		[Kambura, Anne Kelly; Kasili, Remmy Wekesa] Jomo Kenyatta Univ Agr & Technol, Inst Biotechnol Res, POB 62000-00200, Nairobi, Kenya; [Mwirichia, Romano Kachiuru] Embu Univ Coll, POB 6-60100, Nairobi, Kenya; [Karanja, Edward Nderitu] ICIPE, POB 30772-00100, Nairobi, Kenya; [Makonde, Huxley Mae] Pure & Appl Sci Tech Univ Mombasa, POB 90420-80100, Mombasa, Kenya; [Boga, Hamadi Iddi] Taita Taveta Univ Coll, POB 635-80300, Voi, Kenya; [Boga, Hamadi Iddi] Taita Taveta Univ Coll, POB 635-80300, Voi, Kenya								58							Microbiology	WOS:000379308100001		
J	Gao, Cheng; Kim, Yong-Chan; Zheng, Yong; Yang, Wei; Chen, Liang; Ji, Niu-Niu; Wan, Shi-Qiang; Guo, Liang-Dong								Increased precipitation, rather than warming, exerts a strong influence on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal community in a semiarid steppe ecosystem								BOTANY				94	6			459	469		10.1139/cjb-2015-0210			JUN 2016	2016	Knowing the responses of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi to warming and increased precipitation are critical for understanding how biodiversity is maintained and how the ecosystem functions under global climate-change scenarios in natural ecosystems. In this study, AM fungal communities were examined in a 6 year experiment with warming and increased precipitation, in a semiarid steppe in northern China. Only the increased precipitation, regardless of warming, significantly increased AM fungal extra-radical hyphal density, compared with the control treatment. AM fungal spore density was significantly increased by the combination of warming and increased precipitation, and increased precipitation-only treatments, but not by warming alone. A total of 36 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) of AM fungi were recovered by 454 pyrosequencing of 18S rDNA. Only increased precipitation, regardless of warming, significantly decreased AM fungal OTU richness and Shannon diversity index, and yet significantly increased AM fungal Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, compared with the control treatment. AM fungal community composition was significantly affected by increased precipitation via water availability, but not by warming. Our findings demonstrated that the AM fungal community responded more strongly to water availability than to warming in the semiarid steppe ecosystem.		[Gao, Cheng; Kim, Yong-Chan; Zheng, Yong; Yang, Wei; Chen, Liang; Ji, Niu-Niu; Guo, Liang-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Microbiol, State Key Lab Mycol, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Chen, Liang; Ji, Niu-Niu] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Wan, Shi-Qiang] Henan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Kaifeng 475001, Peoples R China; [Guo, Liang-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Microbiol, State Key Lab Mycol, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China				8th International Conference on Mycorrhizas (ICOM)	AUG 03-07, 2015		No Arizona Univ, Flagstaff, AZ	73							Plant Sciences	WOS:000378854300005		
J	Hedin, Charlotte; van der Gast, Christopher J.; Rogers, Geraint B.; Cuthbertson, Leah; McCartney, Sara; Stagg, Andrew J.; Lindsay, James O.; Whelan, Kevin								Siblings of patients with Crohn's disease exhibit a biologically relevant dysbiosis in mucosal microbial metacommunities								GUT				65	6			944	953		10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308896			JUN 2016	2016	Objective To determine the existence of mucosal dysbiosis in siblings of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) using 454 pyrosequencing and to comprehensively characterise and determine the influence of genotypical and phenotypical factors, on that dysbiosis. Siblings of patients with CD have elevated risk of developing CD and display aspects of disease phenotype, including faecal dysbiosis. Whether the mucosal microbiota is disrupted in these at-risk individuals is unknown. Design Rectal biopsy DNA was extracted from 21 patients with quiescent CD, 17 of their healthy siblings and 19 unrelated healthy controls. Mucosal microbiota was analysed by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing and were classified into core and rare species. Genotypical risk was determined using Illumina Immuno BeadChip, faecal calprotectin by ELISA and blood T-cell phenotype by flow cytometry. Results Core microbiota of both patients with CD and healthy siblings was significantly less diverse than controls. Metacommunity profiling (Bray-Curtis (S-BC) index) showed the sibling core microbial composition to be more similar to CD (S-BC= 0.70) than to healthy controls, whereas the sibling rare microbiota was more similar to healthy controls (S-BC= 0.42). Faecalibacterium prausnitzii contributed most to core metacommunity dissimilarity both between siblings and controls, and between patients and controls. Phenotype/genotype markers of CD risk significantly influenced microbiota variation between and within groups, of which genotype had the largest effect. Conclusions Individuals with elevated CD-risk display mucosal dysbiosis characterised by reduced diversity of core microbiota and lower abundance of F. prausnitzii. This dysbiosis in healthy people at risk of CD implicates microbiological processes in CD pathogenesis.		[Hedin, Charlotte; Whelan, Kevin] Kings Coll London, Fac Life Sci & Med, Diabet & Nutr Sci Div, Franklin Wilkins Bldg,150 Stamford St, London SE1 9NH, England; [Hedin, Charlotte; Stagg, Andrew J.] Queen Mary Univ London, Blizard Inst, Ctr Immunol & Infect Dis, London, England; [van der Gast, Christopher J.; Cuthbertson, Leah] NERC Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Wallingford, Oxon, England; [Rogers, Geraint B.] Flinders Univ S Australia, South Australian Hlth & Med Res Inst, Infect & Immun Theme, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia; [McCartney, Sara] UCL, Ctr Gastroenterol & Nutr, London, England; [Lindsay, James O.] Queen Mary Univ London, Blizard Inst, Ctr Digest Dis, London, England; [Lindsay, James O.] Barts Hlth NHS Trust, Dept Gastroenterol, London, England; [Whelan, Kevin] Kings Coll London, Fac Life Sci & Med, Diabet & Nutr Sci Div, Franklin Wilkins Bldg,150 Stamford St, London SE1 9NH, England								53							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:000375570600011		
J	Forti, Lucas R.; Costa, William P.; Martins, Lucas B.; Nunes-de-Almeida, Carlos H. L.; Toledo, Luis Felipe								Advertisement call and genetic structure conservatism: good news for an endangered Neotropical frog								PEERJ				4						e2014	10.7717/peerj.2014			MAY 10 2016	2016	Background: Many amphibian species are negatively affected by habitat change due to anthropogenic activities. Populations distributed over modified landscapes may be subject to local extinction or may be relegated to the remaining-likely isolated and possibly degraded-patches of available habitat. Isolation without gene flow could lead to variability in phenotypic traits owing to differences in local selective pressures such as environmental structure, microclimate, or site-specific species assemblages. Methods: Here, we tested the microevolution hypothesis by evaluating the acoustic parameters of 349 advertisement calls from 15 males from six populations of the endangered amphibian species Proceratophrys moratoi. In addition, we analyzed the genetic distances among populations and the genetic diversity with a haplotype network analysis. We performed cluster analysis on acoustic data based on the Bray-Curtis index of similarity, using the UPGMA method. We correlated acoustic dissimilarities (calculated by Euclidean distance) with geographical and genetic distances among populations. Results: Spectral traits of the advertisement call of P. moratoi presented lower coefficients of variation than did temporal traits, both within and among males. Cluster analyses placed individuals without congruence in population or geographical distance, but recovered the species topology in relation to sister species. The genetic distance among populations was low; it did not exceed 0.4% for the most distant populations, and was not correlated with acoustic distance. Discussion: Both acoustic features and genetic sequences are highly conserved, suggesting that populations could be connected by recent migrations, and that they are subject to stabilizing selective forces. Although further studies are required, these findings add to a growing body of literature suggesting that this species would be a good candidate for a reintroduction program without negative effects on communication or genetic impact.		[Forti, Lucas R.; Nunes-de-Almeida, Carlos H. L.; Toledo, Luis Felipe] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Anim, Lab Multiusuario Bioacust LMBio, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Forti, Lucas R.; Nunes-de-Almeida, Carlos H. L.; Toledo, Luis Felipe] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Anim, Lab Hist Nat Anfibios Brasileiros LaHNAB, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Costa, William P.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Estrutural & Func, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Martins, Lucas B.] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Lab Taxon Sistemat & Ecol Anuros Neotropicais, Fac Ciencias Integradas Pontal, Ituiutaba, MG, Brazil; [Martins, Lucas B.] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Biol, Programa Posgrad Biol Comparada, BR-14049 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Forti, Lucas R.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Anim, Lab Multiusuario Bioacust LMBio, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Forti, Lucas R.] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Anim, Lab Hist Nat Anfibios Brasileiros LaHNAB, Campinas, SP, Brazil								18							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000376527500013		
J	Schwind, Leilane T. F.; Arrieira, Rodrigo L.; Dias, Juliana D.; Simoes, Nadson R.; Bonecker, Claudia C.; Lansac-Toha, Fÿbio A.								The structure of planktonic communities of testate amoebae (Arcellinida and Euglyphida) in three environments of the Upper Parana River basin, Brazil								JOURNAL OF LIMNOLOGY				75	1			78	89		10.4081/jlimnol.2015.1180			2016	2016	Ecological communities are constantly restructuring in the short and long term in response to population dynamics and environmental variables. This study evaluated the structure of arcellinid and euglyphid testate amoebae planktonic communities in three environments of the Upper Parana River basin, Brazil. We hypothesised that the community structure of testate amoebae is differentially influenced by environmental conditions, mainly in isolated lentic ecosystems, due the effect of the low-water period. In addition, we predicted that the response of testate amoeba communities to environmental changes is also affected by the distinct hydrodynamic characteristics of the environment. Plankton were sampled in the low- and high-water periods, and physical and chemical variables were calculated for each site. In order to evaluate the influence of environmental conditions on the variation in testate amoebae community structure over time, a time-lag analytical approach was used and significance was estimated using a Mantel test. A Kendall test coefficient was used to estimate the maintenance of species abundance on each day when sampling was carried out and for each water body. A redundancy analysis was also performed to assess the responses of testate amoeba communities to environmental change in the three studied environments. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices were calculated for the testate amoeba communities and the significance of the differences between communities was estimated using a Mantel test. Seventy-five taxa belonging to six families were identified. Environmental conditions influenced the richness, abundance, and dominance pattern of the testate amoebae communities, and distinct hydrodynamic characteristics of the environments affected the establishment of community structure.		[Schwind, Leilane T. F.; Arrieira, Rodrigo L.; Dias, Juliana D.; Bonecker, Claudia C.; Lansac-Toha, Fÿbio A.] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Biol, Nucleo Pesquisas Limnol Ictiol & Aquicultura, Ave Colombo 5790,Bloco G-90, BR-87020900 Maringa, PR, Brazil; [Simoes, Nadson R.] Univ Fed Sul Bahia, Ctr Ciencias Ambientais, Rodovia BA001 Porto Seguro Eunapolis, BR-45810000 Porto Seguro, BA, Brazil; [Schwind, Leilane T. F.] Univ Estadual Maringa, Dept Biol, Nucleo Pesquisas Limnol Ictiol & Aquicultura, Ave Colombo 5790,Bloco G-90, BR-87020900 Maringa, PR, Brazil								13							Limnology	WOS:000373393700008		
J	Millares, Laura; Perez-Brocal, Vicente; Ferrari, Rafaela; Gallego, Miguel; Pomares, Xavier; Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Monton, Concepcion; Capilla, Silvia; Monso, Eduard; Moya, Andres								Functional Metagenomics of the Bronchial Microbiome in COPD								PLOS ONE				10	12					e0144448	10.1371/journal.pone.0144448			DEC 3 2015	2015	The course of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is frequently aggravated by exacerbations, and changes in the composition and activity of the microbiome may be implicated in their appearance. The aim of this study was to analyse the composition and the gene content of the microbial community in bronchial secretions of COPD patients in both stability and exacerbation. Taxonomic data were obtained by 16S rRNA gene amplification and pyrosequencing, and metabolic information through shotgun metagenomics, using the Metagenomics RAST server (MG-RAST), and the PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States) programme, which predict metagenomes from 16S data. Eight severe COPD patients provided good quality sputum samples, and no significant differences in the relative abundance of any phyla and genera were found between stability and exacerbation. Bacterial biodiversity (Chao1 and Shannon indexes) did not show statistical differences and beta-diversity analysis (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index) showed a similar microbial composition in the two clinical situations. Four functional categories showed statistically significant differences with MG-RAST at KEGG level 2: in exacerbation, Cell growth and Death and Transport and Catabolism decreased in abundance [1.6 (0.2-2.3) vs 3.6 (3.3-6.9), p = 0.012; and 1.8 (0-3.3) vs 3.6 (1.8-5.1), p = 0.025 respectively], while Cancer and Carbohydrate Metabolism increased [0.8 (0-1.5) vs 0 (0-0.5), p = 0.043; and 7 (6.4-9) vs 5.9 (6.3-6.1), p = 0.012 respectively]. In conclusion, the bronchial microbiome as a whole is not significantly modified when exacerbation symptoms appear in severe COPD patients, but its functional metabolic capabilities show significant changes in several pathways.		[Millares, Laura; Garcia-Nunez, Marian] Fundacio Parc Tauli, Sabadell, Spain; [Millares, Laura; Pomares, Xavier; Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Monton, Concepcion; Monso, Eduard] CIBERES, CIBER Enfermedades Resp, Bunyola, Spain; [Millares, Laura; Garcia-Nunez, Marian; Monso, Eduard] Univ Autonoma Barcelona, Esfera UAB, E-08193 Barcelona, Spain; [Millares, Laura; Garcia-Nunez, Marian] Fundacio Insitut Invest Germans Trias & Pujol, Badalona, Spain; [Perez-Brocal, Vicente; Ferrari, Rafaela; Moya, Andres] Fdn Fomento Invest Sanitaria & Biomed Comunidad V, Genom & Hlth Area, Valencia, Spain; [Perez-Brocal, Vicente; Ferrari, Rafaela; Moya, Andres] CIBERESP, Barcelona, Spain; [Perez-Brocal, Vicente; Ferrari, Rafaela; Moya, Andres] Univ Valencia, ICBiBE, Evolutionary Genet Unit, Valencia, Spain; [Gallego, Miguel; Pomares, Xavier; Monton, Concepcion; Monso, Eduard] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Dept Resp Med, Sabadell, Spain; [Capilla, Silvia] Hosp Univ Parc Tauli, Dept Microbiol, Sabadell, Spain; [Millares, Laura] Fundacio Parc Tauli, Sabadell, Spain								35							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000366040000084		
J	Li Zengguang; Ye Zhenjiang; Wan Rong								Spatial and seasonal patterns of ichthyoplankton assemblages in the Haizhou Bay and its adjacent waters of China								JOURNAL OF OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA				14	6			1041	1052		10.1007/s11802-015-2603-3			DEC 2015	2015	Surveys were conducted in five voyages in Haizhou Bay and its adjacent coastal area from March to December 2011 during full moon spring tides. The ichthyoplankton assemblages and the environmental factors that affect their spatial and seasonal patterns were determined. Totally 35 and 12 fish egg and larvae taxa were identified, respectively. Over the past several decades, the egg and larval species composition has significantly changed in Haizhou Bay and its adjacent waters, most likely corresponding with the alteration of fishery resources, which are strongly affected by anthropogenic activities and climate change. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index identified four assemblages: near-shore bay assemblage, middle bay assemblage and two closely related assemblages (near-shore/middle bay assemblage and middle/edge of bay assemblage). The primary species of each assemblage principally reflected the spawning strategies of adult fish. The near-shore bay assemblage generally occurred in near-shore bay, with depths measuring < 20 m, and the middle bay assemblage generally occurred in the middle of bay, with depths measuring 20 to 40 m. Spatial and seasonal variations in ichthyoplankton in each assemblage were determined by interactions between biological behavioral traits and oceanographic features, particularly the variation of local conditions within the constraint of a general reproductive strategy. The results of Spearman's rank correlation analysis indicated that both fish egg and larval abundance were positively correlated with depth, which is critical to the oceanographic features in Haizhou Bay.		[Li Zengguang; Ye Zhenjiang; Wan Rong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Fisheries, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Wan Rong] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China; [Ye Zhenjiang] Ocean Univ China, Coll Fisheries, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								8							Oceanography	WOS:000364572000015		
J	Chapman, Jacqueline M.; Marcogliese, David J.; Suski, Cory D.; Cooke, Steven J.								Variation in parasite communities and health indices of juvenile <i>Lepomis gibbosus</i> across a gradient of watershed land-use and habitat quality								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				57				564	572		10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.05.013			OCT 2015	2015	Parasites of fishes vary in community structure and species abundance in response to environmental conditions and pollutants. As a result, the use of parasites as bioindicators of habitat degradation has been proposed and successfully applied in recent years. Here, helminth parasites of juvenile pumpkinseed Lepomis gibbosus from three streams representing a gradient of watershed development and habitat quality were examined to assess variation in parasite communities. Health assessment indices were also generated for each host to quantify the influence of habitat on the observed health of individuals. A total of 22 parasite taxa were recovered from examined fish, comprising 11 digeneans, 3 cestodes, 2 acanthocephalans, 5 monogeneans and 1 crustacean. In the most disturbed stream, parasite species richness was lowest and total abundance was highest, while parasite abundance was lowest and diversity highest in the least disturbed stream. There was no significant difference in health indices among streams. Analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity in species composition (SIMPER) identified Posthodiplostomum spp. and Actinocleidus sp. as the species driving parasite community dissimilarity. These taxa are relatively easy to identify to genus level and thus could be appropriate for use as indicators of environmental health, where increased abundance would suggest negative changes in habitat quality. However, larger scale study including more streams would be necessary to establish baseline community data before such implementation would be feasible. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Chapman, Jacqueline M.; Cooke, Steven J.] Carleton Univ, Dept Biol, Fish Ecol & Conservat Physiol Lab, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada; [Marcogliese, David J.] Environm Canada, Aquat Biodivers Sect, Watershed Hydrol & Ecol Res Div,St Lawrence Ctr, Water Sci & Technol Directorate,Sci & Technol Bra, Montreal, PQ H2Y 2E7, Canada; [Suski, Cory D.] Univ Illinois, Dept Nat Resources & Environm Sci, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Cooke, Steven J.] Carleton Univ, Inst Environm Sci, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada; [Chapman, Jacqueline M.] Carleton Univ, Dept Biol, Fish Ecol & Conservat Physiol Lab, 1125 Colonel Dr, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada								38							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000358091800061		
J	Prakash, S.; Ramasubburayan, R.; Iyapparaj, P.; Ahila, N. K.; Ramkumar, V. Sri; Palavesam, A.; Immanuel, G.; Kannapiran, E.								Influence of physicochemical and nutritional factors on bacterial diversity in mangrove sediments along the southwest coast of Tamilnadu, India								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				187	9					562	10.1007/s10661-015-4713-1			SEP 2015	2015	The present study was undertaken to investigate the diversity of mangrove-associated bacterial genera at Manakudy estuary, Southwest coast of India. The root and rhizosphere sediments of both mangrove and their associated plants were collected from chosen area. Results inferred that the maximum nutrients, THB density, and diversity indices were recorded in rhizosphere and root sample of Avicennia officinalis. Altogether, 258 bacterial strains were isolated from the chosen mangrove samples and screened for nitrogen fixing and phosphate solubilizing ability. Screened result inferred that, 36.43% isolates had nitrogen fixing and 29.45 % isolates had phosphate solubilizing ability. Here, the genus Bacillus spp. (21.71 %) was the most dominant genera. The bacterial diversity indices, i.e., univariate analysis showed remarkable variation between the chosen samples; however, maximum diversity indices was registered by rhizosphere and root sample of A. officinalis. The 95% confidence interval and ellipse showed that samples were well mendacious within AvTD and VarTD. Likewise, the multivariate analysis like similarity percentage was good discriminator from 16.64 to 100 % by Bray-Curtis dissimilarity. The prinicipal component analysis (PCA) showed marked variation between the tested bacterial communities. Cluster analysis and non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) were grouped by Bray-Curtis similarity index which strongly evidence that the rhizosphere and root samples of A. officinalis were highly diversified in the study area.		[Prakash, S.] SRM Univ, Res Inst, Kattankulathur 603203, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ramasubburayan, R.; Palavesam, A.; Immanuel, G.] Manonmaniam Sundaranar Univ, Ctr Marine Sci & Technol, Rajakkamangalam 629502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Iyapparaj, P.] Annamalai Univ, CAS Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ramkumar, V. Sri] Bharathidasan Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Dept Environm Biotechnol, Tiruchirappalli 620024, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ahila, N. K.; Kannapiran, E.] Alagappa Univ, DDE, Dept Zool, Karaikkudi 600003, Tamil Nadu, India; [Prakash, S.] SRM Univ, Res Inst, Kattankulathur 603203, Tamil Nadu, India								7							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000360313000016		
J	Xiong, Wu; Zhao, Qingyun; Zhao, Jun; Xun, Weibing; Li, Rong; Zhang, Ruifu; Wu, Huasong; Shen, Qirong								Different Continuous Cropping Spans Significantly Affect Microbial Community Membership and Structure in a Vanilla-Grown Soil as Revealed by Deep Pyrosequencing								MICROBIAL ECOLOGY				70	1			209	218		10.1007/s00248-014-0516-0			JUL 2015	2015	In the present study, soil bacterial and fungal communities across vanilla continuous cropping time-series fields were assessed through deep pyrosequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions. The results demonstrated that the long-term monoculture of vanilla significantly altered soil microbial communities. Soil fungal diversity index increased with consecutive cropping years, whereas soil bacterial diversity was relatively stable. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity cluster and UniFrac-weighted principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) revealed that monoculture time was the major determinant for fungal community structure, but not for bacterial community structure. The relative abundances (RAs) of the Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Basidiomycota phyla were depleted along the years of vanilla monoculture. Pearson correlations at the phyla level demonstrated that Actinobacteria, Armatimonadetes, Bacteroidetes, Verrucomicrobia, and Firmicutes had significant negative correlations with vanilla disease index (DI), while no significant correlation for fungal phyla was observed. In addition, the amount of the pathogen Fusarium oxysporum accumulated with increasing years and was significantly positively correlated with vanilla DI. By contrast, the abundance of beneficial bacteria, including Bradyrhizobium and Bacillus, significantly decreased over time. In sum, soil weakness and vanilla stem wilt disease after long-term continuous cropping can be attributed to the alteration of the soil microbial community membership and structure, i.e., the reduction of the beneficial microbes and the accumulation of the fungal pathogen.		[Xiong, Wu; Zhao, Jun; Xun, Weibing; Li, Rong; Zhang, Ruifu; Shen, Qirong] Nanjing Agr Univ, Key Lab Plant Nutr & Fertilizat Low Middle Reache, Jiangsu Collaborat Innovat Ctr Solid Organ Waste, Natl Engn Res Ctr Organ Based Fertilizers,Minist, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Xiong, Wu; Zhao, Qingyun; Wu, Huasong] Chinese Acad Trop Agr Sci, Spice & Beverage Res Inst, Wanning 571533, Hainan, Peoples R China; [Shen, Qirong] Nanjing Agr Univ, Key Lab Plant Nutr & Fertilizat Low Middle Reache, Jiangsu Collaborat Innovat Ctr Solid Organ Waste, Natl Engn Res Ctr Organ Based Fertilizers,Minist, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								328							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Microbiology	WOS:000355694900020		
J	Leon-Chavez, Cristina A.; Beier, Emilio; Sanchez-Velasco, Laura; Desmond Barton, Eric; Godinez, Victor M.								Role of circulation scales and water mass distributions on larval fish habitats in the Eastern Tropical Pacific off Mexico								JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS				120	6			3987	4002		10.1002/2014JC010289			JUN 2015	2015	On the basis of five oceanographic cruises carried out in the Eastern Tropical Pacific off Mexico, relationships between the larval fish habitats (areas inhabited by larval fish assemblages) and the environmental circulation scales (mesoscale, seasonal, and interannual) were examined. Analysis of in situ data over a grid of hydrographic stations and oblique zooplankton hauls with bongo net (505 mu m) was combined with orthogonal robust functions decomposition applied to altimetry anomalies obtained from satellite. During both cool (March and June) and warm (August and November) periods, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity Index defined three recurrent larval fish habitats which varied in species composition and extent as a function of the environmental scales. The variability of the Tropical larval fish habitat (characterized by high species richness, and dominated by Vinciguerria lucetia, Diogenichthys laternatus, and Diaphus pacificus) was associated with the seasonal changes. The Transitional-California Current larval fish habitat (dominated by V. lucetia and D. laternatus, with lower mean abundance and lower species richness than in the Tropical habitat) and Coastal-and-Upwelling larval fish habitat (dominated by Bregmaceros bathymaster) was associated mainly with mesoscale activity induced by eddies and with coastal upwelling. During February 2010, the Tropical larval fish habitat predominated offshore and the Transitional-California Current larval fish habitat was not present, which we attribute to the effect of El Nino conditions. Thus, the mesoscale, seasonal, and interannual environmental scales affect the composition and extension of larval fish habitats.		[Leon-Chavez, Cristina A.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Posgrad Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Beier, Emilio] Ctr Invest Cient & Educ Super Ensenada, La Paz, Mexico; [Sanchez-Velasco, Laura] CICIMAR IPN, Dept Plancton & Ecol Marina, La Paz, Mexico; [Desmond Barton, Eric] Inst Invest Marinas CSIC, Dept Oceanog, Vigo, Spain; [Godinez, Victor M.] Ctr Invest Cient & Educ Super Ensenada, Dept Oceanog Fis, Ensenada, Mexico; [Beier, Emilio] Ctr Invest Cient & Educ Super Ensenada, La Paz, Mexico								20							Oceanography	WOS:000358124100007		
J	Tamutis, Vytautas; Sklodowski, Jaroslaw W.								Coleoptera assemblages inhabiting managed and preserved pine forests - the effect of fifteen years of reserve conservation								SYLWAN				159	2			142	150					FEB 2015	2015	The assemblages of Coleoptera have been examined in the managed and reserved mature pine forests of Lithuania since 1997. Beetles have been sampled from the forest litter using sieves. The present study is based on the data of 20 litter samples (10 samples per each stand) taken in the period from October 2013 to February 2014. Each sample was compiled of 5 smaller ones taking all litter (up to mineral layer of the soil) from 0.04 m(2) plot. During the study a total 450 adults representing 69 species of beetles was discovered. Both the average number of species and the number of individuals were found to be higher in the samples taken in reserved forest and made 10:7 +/- 1.4 and 27.2 +/- 4.9, whereas in managed forest they made 9.7 +/- 1.1 and 17.08 +/- 3.4, but the differences were not statistically significant. The proportions of phytophagous, mecetobionts and saprophagous were also bigger in reserved forest: 9.5 +/- 2.0, 7.8 +/- 2.2, 3.1 +/- 1.0 than those in the managed forest, where these groups consisted of 8.0 +/- 1.8, 4.9 +/- 1.7 and 2.8 +/- 1.6 percent of the total number of individuals in the sample, respectively. The opposite proportions were detected for zoophages, which were more ambiguous in the managed forest and were by 76.0 +/- 2.5 higher than those in the reserved forest 72.8 +/- 3.2. These differences were not statistically significant. A non-metric multidimensional scale (NMDS) using Bray-Curtis similarity matrix indicated low differences of the Coleoptera assemblages between investigated sites (final stress=0.22). The analysis using RDA showed some differences between Coleoptera assemblages inhabiting reserved forest (R) and managed forest (D), which were correlated with proportions of humified mortmass (+0.88) and biomass of moss (-0.63 and -0.71). The dissimilarity index calculated using the algorithm SIMPER, was quite high (71%), but the obtained results showed a relatively low diversity of beetle assemblages in both forests. It means that the process of transformation of the managed forest into reserve is very slow, most likely due to the fact that restoration of the microhabitats is particularly slow. Low differentiation of Coleoptera assemblages dwelling in litter is associated with low dispersal power of most coleopteran species. Thus, the establishment of new reserves in old growth pine forests can not stimulate fast increase of specific beetle diversity mainly because the regenerative processes of microhabitats seem to be extremely slow. The specific diversity of beetle assemblages was slightly higher in the reserved forests, but it was not confirmed statistically. In comparison with the managed old growth pine forest the period of fifteen years of reservation of old growth pine forest has only a very low effect on specific diversity and ecological specialization of the beetles.		[Tamutis, Vytautas] Uniwersytet Aleksandra Stulginskisa, Inst Biol & Biotechnol Roslin, LT-53361 Litwa, Latvia; [Tamutis, Vytautas] Kowienskie Muzeum Zool T Ivanauskasa, LT-44253 Litwa, Latvia; [Sklodowski, Jaroslaw W.] SGGW Warszawie, Katedra Ochrony Lasu & Ekol, PL-02776 Warsaw, Poland; [Tamutis, Vytautas] Uniwersytet Aleksandra Stulginskisa, Inst Biol & Biotechnol Roslin, Studentu 11, LT-53361 Litwa, Latvia								1							Forestry	WOS:000353600300007		
J	Sanchez-Ramirez, Marina; Ocana-Luna, Alberto								Structure and seasonal variation of the Ichthyoplankton community from a hypersaline lagoon in the Western Gulf of Mexico: Laguna Madre, Tamaulipas								HIDROBIOLOGICA				25	2			175	186					2015	2015	In order to analyze the structure of the Ichthyoplankton community in the southern region of the Laguna Madre, Tamaulipas, zooplankton samples were taken in October of 1997, and January, May and July of 1998; salinity and temperature (degrees C) of the superficial water were simultaneously measured. Thirthy nine species were identified: Opisthonema oglinum, Lupinoblennius nicholsi, Ctenogobius shufeldti, Microgobius thalassinus, Gobiesox strumosus, Citharichthys arctifrons and Acanthostracion quadricornis were new records to the system. 80% of the species were marine; these penetrate the system in their larva and/or young stage and make use of the system as a nursery zone. The highest abundance of larvae was found in May (ANOVA(3, 76) F=4.995, p < 0.005). Anchoa hepsetus and Anchoa mitchilli were present all year round; the latter represented 55.8% of the total population. There was a positive correlation between the density (no. of larvae/100 m(3)) of A. mitchilli with the temperature (r(s (alpha=0.001)) = 0.376) and salinity (r(s (alpha=0.001)) = 0.467). Anchoa hepsetus and Brevoortia gunteri presented a negative correlation with the temperature (r(s (alpha=0.001)) ) =-0.247 and r(s (alpha=0.001))=-0.567, respectively). The richness of species was greater in May and July (24 and 21, respectively). The diversity was lower in October (1.40 bits/ind) and May (1.02 bits/ind) and greater in July (2.23 bits/ind), as well as in equity (0.50). The highest values of dominance were present in October and May (0.57 and 0.59, respectively). Eight groups of species were formed by the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, which determines if the structure of the community is formed by typical lagoon species or estuarine-dependent species.		[Sanchez-Ramirez, Marina; Ocana-Luna, Alberto] Inst Politecn Nacl, Escuela Nacl Ciencias Biol, Dept Zool, Lab Ecol, Prolongac Carpio & Plan de Ayala S-N, Mexico City 11340, DF, Mexico; [Sanchez-Ramirez, Marina] Inst Politecn Nacl, Escuela Nacl Ciencias Biol, Dept Zool, Lab Ecol, Prolongac Carpio & Plan de Ayala S-N, Mexico City 11340, DF, Mexico								6							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000377254200003		
J	Niculescu, L.; Niculescu, M.; Soare, R.; Bonea, D.								PLANT COMMUNITIES CHARACTERISTIC FOR THE MOUNTAINOUS AND SUBALPINE SPRINGS AND STREAMS IN THE PARANG MOUNTAINS (SOUTHERN CARPATHIANS), ROMANIA								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND ECOLOGY				16	4			1364	1370					2015	2015	The territory under study is situated in the Parang Mountains, part of the Southern Carpathians, Romania. In this paper, we present 5 plant communities, belonging to Cl. MONTIOCARDAMINETEA Br.-B1. et Tx. 1943: Chrysosplenio alpini-Cardaminetum amarae M a a s. 1959, Swertio punctatae-Saxifragetum stellaris C o l d e a (1995-1996) 1997, Chrysosplenio alpini-Saxifragetum stellaris P a w l. et W a l a s 1949, Philonotido-Calthetum laetae (K r a j i n a 1933) Coldea and Carici remotae-Calthetum laetae C o 1 d e a (1972) 1978. Several types of analysis concerning the ecological features, the local distribution, the homogeneity (by using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index), the floristic composition and the economic importance were performed for all four described plant communities.		[Niculescu, L.; Niculescu, M.; Soare, R.; Bonea, D.] Univ Craiova, Fac Agr & Hort, 19 Libertatii St, Craiova 200583, Romania; [Niculescu, L.] Univ Craiova, Fac Agr & Hort, 19 Libertatii St, Craiova 200583, Romania								3							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000368864500015		
J	Hasegawa, Motohiro; Sasaki, Takeshi; Sato, Fliroki; Abe, Shin								Effects of roads on collembolan community structure in subtropical evergreen forests on Okinawa Island, southwestern Japan								PEDOBIOLOGIA				58	1			13	21		10.1016/j.pedobi.2014.11.002			JAN 2015	2015	Because roads through forested sites may affect the soil invertebrate community within the forest, we investigated collembolan community structure at various distances from roads running through subtropical evergreen forests on Okinawa, Japan. We hypothesized that collembolan communities near roads would be deleteriously affected due to the reduction of litter and changes in water conditions, and tree community composition as compared to those in the inner forest. Collembolan densities tended to be lower near roads (up to 1 m inside the forest) than in inner-forest regions (>= 20m from roads). Collembolan species richness in the soil was also affected by distance from the roadside. A decrease in collembolan density was associated with lower soil water content and changes in tree community composition (principally a decrease in Castanopsis sieboldii cover), but the accumulated litter weight had no significant effect, probably because accumulated litter levels were low. The extent of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity between collembolan communities located along roads decreased with distance from the roadside as compared to that of reference sites (>80 m from the roads). Separation of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities into two components revealed that differences between roadside communities and those of reference sites were largely explained by taxonomic turnover (i.e., individuals of certain species at one site were substituted with the same numbers of individuals of different species at another site). The dissimilarities between collembolan community compositions at 1 or 5 m from roadsides as compared to those of reference sites 20 m from roadsides appeared to be attributable to higher density losses of all species found at 1 or 5 m. Distance-based linear modeling showed that the collembolan community composition was associated both with distance from the forest edge and with the index values of tree community structure. Folsomia octoculata served as an inner-forest (>= 20 m from the roadside) indicator species. The prevalences of certain dominant species were correlated with the first tree nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) axis. Overall, changes in collembolan communities at forest edges seemed to be caused by diminished soil water content and the presence of tree communities that differed from those in deeper forest. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Hasegawa, Motohiro; Sato, Fliroki; Abe, Shin] Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058687, Japan; [Sasaki, Takeshi] Ryukyu Univ Museum Fujukan, Nishihara, Okinawa 9030213, Japan; [Hasegawa, Motohiro] Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058687, Japan								4							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000351652200003		
J	Guo, Yanyan; Feng, Yanjie; Ge, Yang; Tetreau, Guillaume; Chen, Xiaowen; Dong, Xuehui; Shi, Wangpeng								The Cultivation of Bt Corn Producing Cry1Ac Toxins Does Not Adversely Affect Non-Target Arthropods								PLOS ONE				9	12					e114228	10.1371/journal.pone.0114228			DEC 1 2014	2014	Transgenic corn producing Cry1Ac toxins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) provides effective control of Asian corn borer, Ostrinia furnacalis (Guenee), and thus reduces insecticide applications. However, whether Bt corn exerts undesirable effects on non-target arthropods (NTAs) is still controversial. We conducted a 2-yr study in Shangzhuang Agricultural Experiment Station to assess the potential impact of Bt corn on field population density, biodiversity, community composition and structure of NTAs. On each sampling date, the total abundance, Shannon's diversity index, Pielou's evenness index and Simpson's diversity index were not significantly affected by Bt corn as compared to non-Bt corn. The "sampling dates'' had a significant effect on these indices, but no clear tendencies related to "Bt corn'' or "sampling dates X corn variety'' interaction were recorded. Principal response curve analysis of variance indicated that Bt corn did not alter the distribution of NTAs communities. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and distance analysis showed that Cry1Ac toxin exposure did not increase community dissimilarities between Bt and non-Bt corn plots and that the evolution of non-target arthropod community was similar on the two corn varieties. The cultivation of Bt corn failed to show any detrimental evidence on the density of non-target herbivores, predators and parasitoids. The composition of herbivores, predators and parasitoids was identical in Bt and non-Bt corn plots. Taken together, results from the present work support that Bt corn producing Cry1Ac toxins does not adversely affect NTAs.		[Guo, Yanyan; Feng, Yanjie; Ge, Yang; Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China; [Guo, Yanyan; Tetreau, Guillaume] Cornell Univ, New York State Agr Expt Stn, Dept Entomol, Geneva, NY 14456 USA; [Chen, Xiaowen; Dong, Xuehui] China Agr Univ, Dept Agr Sci, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China; [Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China								20							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000347114900132		
J	Feret, Jean-Baptiste; Asner, Gregory P.								Mapping tropical forest canopy diversity using high-fidelity imaging spectroscopy								ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS				24	6			1289	1296		10.1890/13-1824.1			SEP 2014	2014	There is a growing need for operational biodiversity mapping methods to quantify and to assess the impact of climate change, habitat alteration, and human activity on ecosystem composition and function. Here, we present an original method for the estimation of alpha- and beta-diversity of tropical forests based on high-fidelity imaging spectroscopy. We acquired imagery over high-diversity Amazonian tropical forest landscapes in Peru with the Carnegie Airborne Observatory and developed an unsupervised method to estimate the Shannon index (H') and variations in species composition using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (BC) and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS). An extensive field plot network was used for the validation of remotely sensed alpha- and beta-diversity. Airborne maps of H' were highly correlated with field alpha-diversity estimates (r = 0.86), and BC was estimated with demonstrable accuracy (r = 0.61-0.76). Our findings are the first direct and spatially explicit remotely sensed estimates of alpha- and beta-diversity of humid tropical forests, paving the way for new applications using airborne and space-based imaging spectroscopy.		[Feret, Jean-Baptiste; Asner, Gregory P.] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Feret, Jean-Baptiste] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, 260 Panama St, Stanford, CA 94305 USA								140							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000341715800004		
J	Feret, Jean-Baptiste; Asner, Gregory P.								Microtopographic controls on lowland Amazonian canopy diversity from imaging spectroscopy								ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS				24	6			1297	1310		10.1890/13-1896.1			SEP 2014	2014	Microtopographic variation is ubiquitous throughout lowland Amazonia, and it may impart patterns of species richness and abundance, and perhaps community compositional changes. To date, no studies have determined the degree to which lowland microtopography influences forest canopy diversity. We developed the first high-resolution maps of forest canopy diversity in Amazonia, focusing on four landscapes on two river systems in Peru. Spectroscopic images were acquired using the Carnegie Airborne Observatory combined with a new method based on spectral species to map alpha- and beta-diversity. We analyzed spatial patterns in diversity with respect to floodplain and terrace (terra firme) surfaces and in upriver and downriver locations with contrasting landscape morphologies. We found slightly lower average alpha- diversity in floodplains, but with greater variance than in terrace communities caused by the floodplain mix of swamp forests, anoxic low-diversity ecosystems, and high-diversity areas. beta-diversity estimated with the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (BC) was strongly related to microtopography, with floodplains showing higher internal compositional dissimilarity than terraces. Throughout all landscapes, remotely mapped BC within terrace environments ranged from 0.25 to 0.43, but these values increased 30-77% on floodplains. Upriver landscapes characterized by higher terraces showed more distinct community turnover than did their downstream counterparts. We conclude that microtopography strongly influences beta-diversity throughout the study landscapes, but terrain is weakly associated with variation in alpha-diversity. We uncover the importance of microtopography in determining species composition in lowland Amazonia and highlight the value of imaging spectroscopy for biodiversity research and conservation.		[Feret, Jean-Baptiste; Asner, Gregory P.] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, Stanford, CA 94305 USA; [Asner, Gregory P.] Carnegie Inst Sci, Dept Global Ecol, 260 Panama St, Stanford, CA 94305 USA								16							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000341715800005		
J	Tadu, Z.; Djieto-Lordon, C.; Yede; Youbi, E. B. Messop; Fomena, A.; Babin, R.								Ant diversity in different cocoa agroforest habitats in the Centre Region of Cameroon								AFRICAN ENTOMOLOGY				22	2			388	404		10.4001/003.022.0219			JUL 2014	2014	Agroforestry systems may represent refugia for native fauna in highly disturbed environments. In the context of ongoing intensive destruction of tropical rainforest by agricultural activities, there is a wealth of information on the influence of agricultural practices on arthropod diversity on southern Cameroon cocoa farms. The present study examined the diversity and the composition of ant communities on traditional cocoa farms in relation to agricultural practices along a south-north latitudinal gradient in the Centre Region of Cameroon. Ants were sampled in 21 plots using the chemical knock-down technique, along a latitudinal gradient from Ngomedzap (forest) in the south through Obala (forest-savanna) to Bokito (savanna) in the north. Species richness, Shannon diversity index and Bray-Curtis distance were used to characterize diversity of ant communities and their dissimilarity between habitats. A total of 66 ant species, belonging to 24 genera and seven subfamilies were identified from a sample of 114 843 workers. The ant diversity of Obala is higher than that of Ngomedzap and Bokito. Estimation of Bray-Curtis distances demonstrated that the ant communities of Ngomedzap and Obala were similar to each other, but very different from that of Bokito. The ant communities of Centre Cameroonian cocoa farms appeared relatively diversified. These communities varied in species composition and diversity in relation to agricultural practices along south-north latitudinal gradients.		[Tadu, Z.; Djieto-Lordon, C.; Yede; Youbi, E. B. Messop] Univ Yaounde I, Fac Sci, Zool Lab, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Fomena, A.] Univ Yaounde I, Fac Sci, Parasitol Lab, Yaounde, Cameroon; [Youbi, E. B. Messop] Univ Buea, Fac Sci, Dept Zool & Anim Physiol, Buea, Cameroon; [Babin, R.] CIRAD, UPR Bioagresseurs Analyse & Maitrise Risque, F-34398 Montpellier, France; [Babin, R.] ICIPE, Plant Hlth Div, Nairobi, Kenya; [Tadu, Z.] Univ Yaounde I, Fac Sci, Zool Lab, POB 812, Yaounde, Cameroon								14							Entomology	WOS:000343616000016		
J	Ibanez, Thomas; Munzinger, Jerome; Dagostini, Gilles; Hequet, Vanessa; Rigault, Frederic; Jaffre, Tanguy; Birnbaum, Philippe								Structural and floristic diversity of mixed tropical rain forest in New Caledonia: new data from the New Caledonian Plant Inventory and Permanent Plot Network (NC-PIPPN)								APPLIED VEGETATION SCIENCE				17	3			386	397		10.1111/avsc.12070			JUL 2014	2014	Aims: To describe the structural and floristic diversity of New Caledonian mixed tropical rain forest and investigate its environmental determinants. Location: New Caledonia (SW Pacific), a biodiversity hotspot. Methods: Structural (stem density, basal area) and floristic characteristics (composition, species richness and dissimilarity) were investigated along environmental gradients (elevation, rainfall and slope) on different substrates (ultramafic and non-ultramafic) through the New Caledonian Plant Inventory and Permanent Plots Network (NC-PIPPN, 201 plots each measuring 20 m x 20 m). Results: A total of 28,640 trees (DBH >= 5 cm) belonging to 749 species, 240 genera and 92 families were inventoried in the NC-PIPPN. The New Caledonian mixed rain forest studied was characterized as having high stem density, basal area and species richness, and many small stems (60% of the trees <10 cm DBH and almost a quarter of species did not exceed this threshold). More than one-third of the species were rare (i.e. inventoried in less than three plots or represented by fewer than three individuals) in the plot network and floristic dissimilarity was high (Bray-Curtis index >0.70). The presence of ultramafic (UM) and non-ultramafic substrates (non-UM) combined with altitudinal and rainfall gradients were the main drivers of floristic dissimilarity, whereas the effect of geographic distance between the plots was surprisingly low. Floristic dissimilarity was very high between UM and non-UM substrates from species up to family level. About 75% of the species occurred on a single substrate type. The mixed rain forest on UM and non-UM substrates differed in floristic composition but not in structure. Conclusions: NC-PIPPN proved to be an effective tool for investigating the woody species richness of New Caledonia as containing ca. 46% of its non-herbaceous species. However, the network's design, and more specifically its small plots, restricts its capacity to capture beta diversity and forest structure. High species richness and floristic dissimilarity confirm that New Caledonian mixed rain forest is exceptionally rich.		[Ibanez, Thomas] IAC, Paita 98890, New Caledonia; [Munzinger, Jerome; Dagostini, Gilles; Hequet, Vanessa; Rigault, Frederic; Jaffre, Tanguy] IRD, UMR AMAP, F-34398 Montpellier, France; [Birnbaum, Philippe] IAC CIRAD, UMR AMAP, F-34398 Montpellier, France; [Birnbaum, Philippe] IRD, Herbarium NOU, Lab Bot & Ecol Vegetale Appl, Noumea 98848, New Caledonia; [Ibanez, Thomas] IAC, BP73, Paita 98890, New Caledonia								50							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000337725300003		
J	Gonzalez, Sergio A.; Stotz, Wolfgang; Lancellotti, Domingo								Effects of the Discharge of Iron Ore Tailings on Subtidal Rocky-Bottom Communities in Northern Chile								JOURNAL OF COASTAL RESEARCH				30	3			500	514		10.2112/JCOASTRES-D-12-00086.1			MAY 2014	2014	Some of the many mining operations that exist in northern Chile dispose their mine tailings directly into the sea. Little is known about the effects of these tailings on shallow rocky subtidal communities. This study reports these effects for an iron ore pelletization plant that has discharged for ca. 23 years in the intertidal of a cove on the exposed rocky coast of northern Chile, generating high turbidity in the water column and deposit of sediments on the bottom. A nonparametric multidimensional scaling (nMDS) ordination analysis for the species of the rocky subtidal communities, based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, showed great differences, the affected communities being dominated by incrusting invertebrates, whereas the unaffected areas at the same depth had kelp beds. The effects were observed only close to the discharge and were not observed in the more shallow water communities, which in affected and unaffected areas consisted of barren grounds dominated by calcareous algae and sea urchins. The effect on the vertical zonation pattern of communities did not produce differences in the effective diversity, which turned out to be similar among affected and control sites. This occurred because of the replacement, more than the elimination, of species on affected sites. This type of study, in which information is generally maintained in reports only seen by industry and governments, needs to be published to contribute to a more comprehensive database for the improvement of decision-making processes regarding coastal subtidal rocky communities and the effects of human activities on these environments.		[Gonzalez, Sergio A.; Stotz, Wolfgang] Univ Catolica Norte, Fac Ciencias Mar, Dept Biol Marina, Coquimbo, Chile; [Stotz, Wolfgang] Ctr Estudios Avanzados Zonas Aridas, La Serena, Chile; [Lancellotti, Domingo] Univ Catolica Norte, Fac Med, Dept Salud Publ, Coquimbo, Chile; [Stotz, Wolfgang] Univ Catolica Norte, Fac Ciencias Mar, Dept Biol Marina, Casilla 117, Coquimbo, Chile								9							Environmental Sciences; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000336005100008		
J	Wills, Edgar S.; Jonkers, Daisy M. A. E.; Savelkoul, Paul H.; Masclee, Ad A.; Pierik, Marieke J.; Penders, John								Fecal Microbial Composition of Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's Disease Patients in Remission and Subsequent Exacerbation								PLOS ONE				9	3					e90981	10.1371/journal.pone.0090981			MAR 7 2014	2014	Background: Limited studies have examined the intestinal microbiota composition in relation to changes in disease course of IBD over time. We aimed to study prospectively the fecal microbiota in IBD patients developing an exacerbation during follow-up. Design: Fecal samples from 10 Crohn's disease (CD) and 9 ulcerative colitis (UC) patients during remission and subsequent exacerbation were included. Active disease was determined by colonoscopy and/or fecal calprotectine levels. Exclusion criteria were pregnancy, antibiotic use, enema use and/or medication changes between consecutive samples. The microbial composition was assessed by 16S rDNA pyrosequencing. Results: After quality control, 6,194-11,030 sequences per sample were available for analysis. Patient-specific shifts in bacterial composition and diversity were observed during exacerbation compared to remission, but overarching shifts within UC or CD were not observed. Changes in the bacterial community composition between remission and exacerbation as assessed by Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, were significantly larger in CD versus UC patients (0.59 vs. 0.42, respectively; p = 0.025). Thiopurine use was found to be a significant cause of clustering as shown by Principal Coordinate Analysis and was associated with decreases in bacterial richness (Choa1 501.2 vs. 847.6 in non-users; p<0.001) and diversity (Shannon index: 5.13 vs. 6.78, respectively; p<0.01). Conclusion: Shifts in microbial composition in IBD patients with changing disease activity over time seem to be patient-specific, and are more pronounced in CD than in UC patients. Furthermore, thiopurine use was found to be associated with the microbial composition and diversity, and should be considered when studying the intestinal microbiota in relation to disease course.		[Wills, Edgar S.; Jonkers, Daisy M. A. E.; Masclee, Ad A.; Pierik, Marieke J.] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, Sch Nutr Toxicol & Metab NUTRIM, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Wills, Edgar S.; Savelkoul, Paul H.; Penders, John] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Med Microbiol, Sch Nutr Toxicol & Metab NUTRIM, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Penders, John] Maastricht Univ, Dept Epidemiol, Sch Publ Hlth & Primary Care Caphri, Maastricht, Netherlands; [Penders, John] Maastricht Univ, Med Ctr, Dept Med Microbiol, Sch Nutr Toxicol & Metab NUTRIM, Maastricht, Netherlands								91							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000332485800073		
J	Ohlauson, Cecilia; Blanck, Hans								A comparison of toxicant-induced succession for five antifouling compounds on marine periphyton in SWIFT microcosms								BIOFOULING				30	1			41	50		10.1080/08927014.2013.841145			JAN 2 2014	2014	Five antifouling biocides, chlorothalonile, dichlofluanide, medetomidine, tolylfluanide, and zinc pyrithione, were evaluated regarding their effect on the composition of the periphyton community and the subsequent toxicant-induced succession (TIS). The periphyton communities were exposed in a semi-static setting for 96h using a SWIFT microcosm. As a measure of community composition, pigment profiles from the exposed communities were used as effect indicators and compared with unexposed parts of the same community using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Chlorothalonile caused changes in the community starting at 85 mu gl(-1) while dichlofluanide had no effect even at the highest concentrations used, 810 mu gl(-1). The related substance tolylfluanide only affected the community composition at 2700 mu gl(-1). Medetomidine had a different response curve with a small effect on the community composition at 0.8 mu gl(-1) which then disappeared only to reappear at 240 mu gl(-1). Zinc pyrithione had the largest effect on the periphyton community with changes starting at 10 mu gl(-1) and no detectable pigments at 100 mu gl(-1). The changes in the community composition for the five substances were also compared using multidimensional scaling. When all substances were analyzed and plotted together, chlorothalonile, dichlofluanide, medetomidine, and tolylfluanide showed surprisingly similar effects compared to zinc pyrithione that gave very different TIS. However, when only chlorothalonile, dichlofluanide, and tolylfluanide were plotted together, clear differences in TIS between the three toxicants were revealed. Dichlofluanide only induced small effects, while concentration-dependent TIS trajectories for chlorothalonile and tolylfluanide took off in opposite directions indicating very different responses of the periphyton communities. This study demonstrates that substances with a similar chemical structure and mechanisms of action can have different effects on the community composition. With the exception of zinc pyrithione, none of the recorded effect levels were at concentrations reported from marine environments so far.		[Ohlauson, Cecilia; Blanck, Hans] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden; [Ohlauson, Cecilia] Univ Gothenburg, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, Gothenburg, Sweden								6							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000335830800004		
J	De Caceres, Miquel; Legendre, Pierre; He, Fangliang								Dissimilarity measurements and the size structure of ecological communities								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				4	12			1167	1177		10.1111/2041-210X.12116			DEC 2013	2013	Measurements of community resemblance in ecology are often based on species composition, and the starting point for calculations is usually a site-by-species data table. However, resemblance measurements may not be sufficiently accurate when communities are described using species composition only. Characteristics such as the size of their constituting organisms are also important to understand community organization. Here, we provide a framework that generalizes conventional resemblance measurements by incorporating the size structure of the compared communities. We first introduce the concept of cumulative abundance profile, which generalizes traditional species abundance values, and describe how to calculate it. We then explain our approach to compare cumulative abundance profiles in community resemblance measurements and use a small simulation study to determine which resemblance coefficients appropriately deal with compositional and structural differences. After that, we present an illustrative example where we study the structural and compositional variation between and within six Douglas-fir forest plots in British Columbia, Canada. According to our investigations, the generalizations we suggest for the percentage difference (alias Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) and the Ruika coefficients are appropriate to measure community resemblance in terms of size structure, species composition or both. Our framework allows community resemblance to be measured in terms of either size structure or species composition, or both. A broad range of applications is expected. In the case of terrestrial plant communities, potential applications include analyses of community dynamics and classification of vegetation.		[De Caceres, Miquel] CTFC Forest Sci Ctr Catalonia, E-25280 Solsona, Catalonia, Spain; [De Caceres, Miquel] Autonomous Univ Barcelona, CREAF Ctr Ecol Res & Appl Forestries, Bellaterra, Catalonia, Spain; [Legendre, Pierre] Univ Montreal, Dept Sci Biol, Montreal, PQ H3C 3J7, Canada; [He, Fangliang] Sun Yat Sen Univ, SYSU Alberta Joint Lab Biodivers Conservat, State Key Lab Biocontrol, Guangzhou 510275, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [He, Fangliang] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Sch Life Sci, Guangzhou 510275, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [He, Fangliang] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H1, Canada; [De Caceres, Miquel] CTFC Forest Sci Ctr Catalonia, Ctra St Llorenc de Morunys Km 2, E-25280 Solsona, Catalonia, Spain								47							Ecology	WOS:000327997900008		
J	Barria de Cao, M. S.; Lopez Abbate, M. C.; Pettigrosso, R. E.; Hoffmeyer, M. S.								The planktonic ciliate community and its relationship with the environmental conditions and water quality in two bays of the Beagle Channel, Argentina								JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM				93	7			1753	1760		10.1017/S0025315413000349			NOV 2013	2013	The relationship between the ciliate community and the environmental variables in Ushuaia and Golondrina bays (54 degrees 79'S 68 degrees 22' Wand 54 degrees 85'S 68 degrees 36'W, respectively) in the Beagle Channel, Argentina was investigated. The study was performed in three zones within the bays, previously delimited on the basis of their water quality. The most perturbed sites were located inshore. In order to analyse the contribution of each species to the similarity or dissimilarity between zones, similarity percentages analysis was undertaken using the Bray-Curtis similarity index. The variations in species composition and dominance in the selected zones were examined by the abundance-biomass comparison plot. We also studied the relationship between environmental and ciliates variability. The ciliate community comprised a total of 43 species belonging to 15 genera. Ciliate abundance and biomass varied temporally and spatially. A more diverse community dominated by small and opportunistic species tolerant to environmental changes was found in the most perturbed zone, while in the less stressed zone the community comprised bigger species, probably adapted to more stable environmental conditions. A community comprising species from both zones was found in a transitional area. We conclude that the structure of the community varied closely with environmental conditions.		[Barria de Cao, M. S.; Lopez Abbate, M. C.; Hoffmeyer, M. S.] IADO CONICET UNS Florida 4750, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Barria de Cao, M. S.; Pettigrosso, R. E.] DBByF UNS, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Hoffmeyer, M. S.] Univ Tecnol Nacl, Fac Reg Bahia Blanca, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Barria de Cao, M. S.] IADO CONICET UNS Florida 4750, B8000FWB, Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina								7							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000325553900004		
J	Moebius-Clune, Daniel J.; Moebius-Clune, Bianca N.; van Es, Harold M.; Pawlowska, Teresa E.								Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with a single agronomic plant host across the landscape: Community differentiation along a soil textural gradient								SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY				64				191	199		10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.12.014			SEP 2013	2013	The arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi (phylum Glomeromycota) are important for the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems because of their influence on plant nutrient relations and plant responses to stress. To assess the impact of dispersal limitation and identify niche-related environmental gradients affecting AM fungal community composition and structure, we studied AM fungal communities in an assemblage of maize fields across an eastern New York State landscape. We expressed AM fungal community differences in terms of abundance structure (Bray-Curtis dissimilarities), the presence of unique phylogenetic lineages (UniFrac), and mean phylogenetic relatedness between samples (mean patristic distance, MPD). We did not find strong evidence of dispersal limitation or isolation by distance within or between field sites. To identify environmental factors that may be related to community differentiation, we projected vectors of edaphic variables onto nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordinations of community dissimilarity measures. Of these factors, soil textural components appeared most strongly related to AM fungal community differences. We speculate that this pattern may be explained by the relationship between texture and soil moisture availability. In addition to soil textural components, phylogenetic measures of community differentiation suggested that AM fungal community structure was affected by nutrient concentrations, particularly Mg. Of the two phylogenetic indices of community differentiation, MPD was more consistent and stable with our data, whereas the UniFrac metric failed to be interpretable in several cases. Overall, our data suggest that, rather than phosphorus or pH, soil texture may have an influence on AM fungal community structure over large agroecological scales. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Moebius-Clune, Daniel J.; Pawlowska, Teresa E.] Cornell Univ, Dept Plant Pathol & Plant Microbe Biol, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA; [Moebius-Clune, Bianca N.; van Es, Harold M.] Cornell Univ, Dept Crop & Soil Sci, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA; [Pawlowska, Teresa E.] Cornell Univ, Dept Plant Pathol & Plant Microbe Biol, 334 Plant Sci Bldg, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA								38							Soil Science	WOS:000321679300025		
J	Baselga, Andres								Separating the two components of abundance-based dissimilarity: balanced changes in abundance vs. abundance gradients								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				4	6			552	557		10.1111/2041-210X.12029			JUN 2013	2013	Dissimilarity measures can be formulated using matching components that can be defined as the intersection in terms of species composition of both sets (a) and the relative complements of each set (b and c respectively). Previous work has extended these matching components to abundance-based measures of dissimilarity. Using these matching components in terms of species abundances I provide a novel partition separating two components of abundance-based dissimilarity: (i) balanced variation in abundance, whereby the individuals of some species in one site are substituted by the same number of individuals of different species in another site; and (ii) abundance gradients, whereby some individuals are lost from one site to the other. New indices deriving from the additive partition of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity are presented, each one accounting separately for these two antithetic components of assemblage variation. An example comparing the patterns of increase of assemblage dissimilarity with spatial distance in two tropical forests is provided to illustrate the usefulness of the novel partition to discern the different sources of assemblage variation. The widely used Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity is the result of summing these two sources of dissimilarity, and therefore might consider equivalent patterns that are markedly different. Therefore, the novel partition may be useful to assess biodiversity patterns and to explore their causes, as substitution and loss of individuals are patterns that can derive from completely different processes.		Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Biol, Dept Zool, Santiago De Compostela 15782, Spain; [Baselga, Andres] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Fac Biol, Dept Zool, C Lope Gomez de Marzoa S-N, Santiago De Compostela 15782, Spain								252							Ecology	WOS:000320117200006		
J	Gray, Jonathon B.; Vis, Morgan L.								Reference diatom assemblage response to restoration of an acid mine drainage stream								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				29				234	245		10.1016/j.ecolind.2013.01.002			JUN 2013	2013	A prevalent legacy of coal mining within Appalachia and elsewhere is acid mine drainage (AMD), which drastically alters both the chemical and biological components of the receiving waters. Hewett Fork is one such affected stream. Although AMD treatment has reduced acidity considerably downstream, the ability of this stream to sustain a biological community compared to those found in reference conditions remains unclear. To assess this, tiles colonized with diatom assemblages from a reference stream were transplanted into Hewett Fork in 5 locations along a 6.9 km stream length and sampled after one, three, and six weeks. Diatom assemblage structure metrics, including species evenness (J'), species richness (S), relative abundance of dominant taxon, and Shannon diversity (H'), as well as chlorophyll a concentrations, Bray-Curtis dissimilarities, and Acid Mine Drainage Diatom Index of Biotic Integrity (AMD-DIBI) scores were calculated for each site and sampling time. One-way ANOVAs of structural metrics showed significant differences (P <= 0.001) between the reference site and the 2nd and 3rd most upstream sites within the study reach for the duration of the study, with the exception of the relative abundance of dominant taxa at an intermediate site during the third week. Conversely, the most downstream Hewett Fork assemblage, located 11.6 km from the primary AMD input, did not differ significantly (P > 0.05) from that of the reference assemblage for any structural metrics after the initial sampling period. Throughout the study, only three sites obtained "good" AMD-DIBI narrative class:the reference site (weeks 1, 3, and 6), the most downstream site (weeks 1, 3, and 6; 11.6 km downstream of primary AMD input) and the uppermost site (weeks 1 and 6; 4.7 km downstream of primary AMD input). Results suggested that after an initial one-week acclimation period, assemblages at the uppermost and most downstream sites along the reach were relatively similar to those found in reference conditions, while sites within the middle region continued to show signs of impairment, although the factor(s) causing this impairment remain unknown. These findings suggest that while treatment has been effective on a site-specific basis, the expected linear-response to treatment was not achieved due to underlying factors that are inhibiting reference-like biological communities from reestablishing within the affected stream reach. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gray, Jonathon B.] Ohio Univ, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Vis, Morgan L.] Ohio Univ, Dept Environm & Plant Biol, Athens, OH 45701 USA; [Gray, Jonathon B.] Kent State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Kent, OH 44240 USA								15							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000316580700024		
J	Zhou, Jizhong; Jiang, Yi-Huei; Deng, Ye; Shi, Zhou; Zhou, Benjamin Yamin; Xue, Kai; Wu, Liyou; He, Zhili; Yang, Yunfeng								Random Sampling Process Leads to Overestimation of β-Diversity of Microbial Communities								MBIO				4	3					e00324-13	10.1128/mBio.00324-13			MAY-JUN 2013	2013	The site-to-site variability in species composition, known as beta-diversity, is crucial to understanding spatiotemporal patterns of species diversity and the mechanisms controlling community composition and structure. However, quantifying beta-diversity in microbial ecology using sequencing-based technologies is a great challenge because of a high number of sequencing errors, bias, and poor reproducibility and quantification. Herein, based on general sampling theory, a mathematical framework is first developed for simulating the effects of random sampling processes on quantifying beta-diversity when the community size is known or unknown. Also, using an analogous ball example under Poisson sampling with limited sampling efforts, the developed mathematical framework can exactly predict the low reproducibility among technically replicate samples from the same community of a certain species abundance distribution, which provides explicit evidences of random sampling processes as the main factor causing high percentages of technical variations. In addition, the predicted values under Poisson random sampling were highly consistent with the observed low percentages of operational taxonomic unit (OTU) overlap (< 30% and < 20% for two and three tags, respectively, based on both Jaccard and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indexes), further supporting the hypothesis that the poor reproducibility among technical replicates is due to the artifacts associated with random sampling processes. Finally, a mathematical framework was developed for predicting sampling efforts to achieve a desired overlap among replicate samples. Our modeling simulations predict that several orders of magnitude more sequencing efforts are needed to achieve desired high technical reproducibility. These results suggest that great caution needs to be taken in quantifying and interpreting beta-diversity for microbial community analysis using next-generation sequencing technologies. IMPORTANCE Due to the vast diversity and uncultivated status of the majority of microorganisms, microbial detection, characterization, and quantitation are of great challenge. Although large-scale metagenome sequencing technology such as PCR-based amplicon sequencing has revolutionized the studies of microbial communities, it suffers from several inherent drawbacks, such as a high number of sequencing errors, biases, poor quantitation, and very high percentages of technical variations, which could greatly overestimate microbial biodiversity. Based on general sampling theory, this study provided the first explicit evidence to demonstrate the importance of random sampling processes in estimating microbial beta-diversity, which has not been adequately recognized and addressed in microbial ecology. Since most ecological studies are involved in random sampling, the conclusions learned from this study should also be applicable to other ecological studies in general. In summary, the results presented in this study should have important implications for examining microbial biodiversity to address both basic theoretical and applied management questions.		[Zhou, Jizhong; Yang, Yunfeng] Tsinghua Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Joint Lab Environm Simulat & Pollut Con, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Jizhong; Jiang, Yi-Huei; Deng, Ye; Shi, Zhou; Zhou, Benjamin Yamin; Xue, Kai; Wu, Liyou; He, Zhili] Univ Oklahoma, Inst Environm Genom, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Zhou, Jizhong; Jiang, Yi-Huei; Deng, Ye; Shi, Zhou; Zhou, Benjamin Yamin; Xue, Kai; Wu, Liyou; He, Zhili] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Microbiol & Plant Biol, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Zhou, Jizhong] Univ Calif Berkeley, Lawrence Berkeley Natl Lab, Div Earth Sci, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Zhou, Jizhong] Tsinghua Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Joint Lab Environm Simulat & Pollut Con, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								56							Microbiology	WOS:000321187400034		
J	Kilfoyle, A. Kirk; Freeman, Jessica; Jordan, Lance K. B.; Quinn, T. Patrick; Spieler, Richard E.								Fish assemblages on a mitigation boulder reef and neighboring hardbottom								OCEAN & COASTAL MANAGEMENT				75				53	62		10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2013.02.001			APR 2013	2013	We compared the fish assemblages on a mitigation site to neighboring natural habitat. Artificial reefs made of limestone boulders were deployed offshore Florida in August-September 2003 as mitigation for an anticipated nearshore hardbottom burial associated with a planned beach nourishment. Boulders comprising a footprint of 36,017 m(2) were deployed on sand substrate, adjacent to hardbottom, to replace an expected covering of 30,756 m(2) hardbottom. Nourishment of the beach was initiated May 2005 and completed in February 2006. Fishes on the artificial mitigation reefs and neighboring natural hardbottom were counted annually in August, 2004 through 2008, with 30-m belt transects and rover-diver surveys. Across all surveys a total of 18,313 fish of 185 species was counted. Mean species richness and abundance were typically greater on the transects at mitigation reefs than on nearshore hardbottom (NHB). MDS plots of Bray-Curtis similarity indices show a clear distinction between the mitigation reefs and NHB fish assemblages regardless if the data were, or were not, standardized to account for rugosity differences. SIMPER analysis indicated the two assemblages had, on average, 75% dissimilarity. Thus, while the mitigation boulders exhibited greater abundance and species richness than the NHB, the two assemblages differed dramatically in structure. The mitigation reefs provided a habitat suitable for fish colonization. However, this habitat differed dramatically in size and appearance from impacted NHB and created a unique environment unlike the NHB. Thus, mitigation reefs in general, and boulder reefs specifically, should not be relied upon to provide an equitable replacement to NHB habitat loss. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Kilfoyle, A. Kirk; Freeman, Jessica; Jordan, Lance K. B.; Quinn, T. Patrick; Spieler, Richard E.] Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, Dania, FL 33004 USA; [Kilfoyle, A. Kirk; Jordan, Lance K. B.; Spieler, Richard E.] Nova SE Univ, Natl Coral Reef Inst, Dania, FL 33004 USA; [Spieler, Richard E.] Nova SE Univ, Guy Harvey Res Ctr, Dania, FL 33004 USA; [Quinn, T. Patrick] Broward Cty, Nat Resources Planning & Management Div, Plantation, FL 33324 USA; [Spieler, Richard E.] Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, 8000 North Ocean Dr, Dania, FL 33004 USA								9							Oceanography; Water Resources	WOS:000317377600006		
J	Beck, Jan; Holloway, Jeremy D.; Schwanghart, Wolfgang								Undersampling and the measurement of beta diversity								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				4	4			370	382		10.1111/2041-210x.12023			APR 2013	2013	Beta diversity is a conceptual link between diversity at local and regional scales. Various additional methodologies of quantifying this and related phenomena have been applied. Among them, measures of pairwise (dis)similarity of sites are particularly popular. Undersampling, i.e. not recording all taxa present at a site, is a common situation in ecological data. Bias in many metrics related to beta diversity must be expected, but only few studies have explicitly investigated the properties of various measures under undersampling conditions. On the basis of an empirical data set, representing near-complete local inventories of the Lepidoptera from an isolated Pacific island, as well as simulated communities with varying properties, we mimicked different levels of undersampling. We used 14 different approaches to quantify beta diversity, among them dataset-wide multiplicative partitioning (i.e. true beta diversity') and pairwise site x site dissimilarities. We compared their values from incomplete samples to true results from the full data. We used these comparisons to quantify undersampling bias and we calculated correlations of the dissimilarity measures of undersampled data with complete data of sites. Almost all tested metrics showed bias and low correlations under moderate to severe undersampling conditions (as well as deteriorating precision, i.e. large chance effects on results). Measures that used only species incidence were very sensitive to undersampling, while abundance-based metrics with high dependency on the distribution of the most common taxa were particularly robust. Simulated data showed sensitivity of results to the abundance distribution, confirming that data sets of high evenness and/or the application of metrics that are strongly affected by rare species are particularly sensitive to undersampling. The class of beta measure to be used should depend on the research question being asked as different metrics can lead to quite different conclusions even without undersampling effects. For each class of metric, there is a trade-off between robustness to undersampling and sensitivity to rare species. In consequence, using incidence-based metrics carries a particular risk of false conclusions when undersampled data are involved. Developing bias corrections for such metrics would be desirable.		[Beck, Jan; Schwanghart, Wolfgang] Univ Basel, Dept Environm Sci, Basel, Switzerland; [Holloway, Jeremy D.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Entomol, London SW7 5BD, England; [Schwanghart, Wolfgang] Univ Potsdam, Inst Earth & Environm Sci, Potsdam, Germany; [Beck, Jan] Univ Basel, Dept Environm Sci, Basel, Switzerland								114							Ecology	WOS:000317021300008		
J	Ramezani, Elias; Mohadjer, Mohammad Reza Marvie; Knapp, Hans-Dieter; Theuerkauf, Martin; Manthey, Michael; Joosten, Hans								Pollen-vegetation relationships in the central Caspian (Hyrcanian) forests of northern Iran								REVIEW OF PALAEOBOTANY AND PALYNOLOGY				189				38	49		10.1016/j.revpalbo.2012.10.004			FEB 15 2013	2013	We studied pollen-vegetation relationships along an altitudinal transect in the Caspian (Hyrcanian) forests of northern Iran. We collected surface samples from 20 plots of 400 or 625 m(2) in the major forest communities and compared pollen percentages of the most abundant plant taxa with the vegetation abundances (cover and basal areas) in the pollen plots and in areas of different radii (100, 250, 500 and 1000 m) around the pollen plots using both linear regression and qualitative methods. The results show that anemophilous taxa (i.e. Quercus, Fagus, and Carpinus) in general produce more pollen relative to entomophilous taxa (i.e. Acer, Parrotia, Diospyros, and Hedera). Taxa with light pollen grains, such as Quercus and Carpinus, show large positive intercepts in linear regression analysis, while heavier pollen grains or those possessing a patterned exine, such as Diospyros, Parrotia, Acer, and Hedera show small or even negative intercepts. Larger intercepts indicate that a higher proportion of pollen in the samples arrives from outside the area covered by the vegetation analysis. Our findings indicate that light pollen grains are deposited more slowly than heavy pollen grains. Dissimilarity matrices using the Bray-Curtis index showed that the overall relationship between species composition of vegetation plots and pollen assemblages is better for the areas with 100 m radius than for the pollen plots. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Ramezani, Elias] Urmia Univ, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Forestry, Nazloo, Urmia, Iran; [Mohadjer, Mohammad Reza Marvie] Univ Tehran, Dept Forestry, Fac Nat Resources, Karaj, Iran; [Knapp, Hans-Dieter] Int Nat Conservat Acad, D-18581 Isle Of Vilm, Putbus, Germany; [Ramezani, Elias; Theuerkauf, Martin; Manthey, Michael; Joosten, Hans] Univ Greifswald, Inst Bot & Landscape Ecol, D-17487 Greifswald, Germany; [Ramezani, Elias] Urmia Univ, Fac Nat Resources, Dept Forestry, Sero Blvd,POB 165, Nazloo, Urmia, Iran								18							Plant Sciences; Paleontology	WOS:000314431200005		
J	Lamari, Faouzi; Castex, Mathieu; Larcher, Thibaut; Ledevin, Mireille; Mazurais, David; Bakhrouf, Amina; Gatesoupe, Francois-Joel								Comparison of the effects of the dietary addition of two lactic acid bacteria on the development and conformation of sea bass larvae, <i>Dicentrarchus labrax</i>, and the influence on associated microbiota								AQUACULTURE				376				137	145		10.1016/j.aquaculture.2012.11.016			FEB 15 2013	2013	Probiotics may have many effects on health and development of fish larvae. One of the most promising is related to spinal conformation, though the mode of action is not clearly understood. The present study attempted to investigate the effects of two strains of lactic acid bacteria on associated microbiota, histological development and gene expression. Sea bass larvae were fed since 5 dph (day post hatch) with either a standard control diet (Diet C), or the same diet supplemented with Pediococcus acidilactici MA18/5M (Diet P), or with an autochthonous strain of Lactobacillus casei (X2; Diet L). The two lactic acid bacteria were incorporated in the diets at the levels of 10(6) and 10(7) CFU (colony forming units) g(-1) in two consecutive experiments, respectively. The experimental treatments maintained the lactic acid bacteria above the detection threshold in the larvae. In the second experiment, the Bray-Curtis indices revealed the dissimilarity between the Bacterial Community Profiles (BCPs) associated with Diet P and those of the two other dietary groups. The two lactic acid bacteria promoted growth, especially by 20-22 dph, but the development seemed affected differently in the two groups. The osteocalcin gene was overexpressed at 20-22 dph in group L, suggesting a difference in the early bone development compared with Group P. A possible consequence was the highest incidence of spinal deformities in Group L. At day 62 dph, the ossification was achieved and normal in 60% of the larvae in Group P, whereas this rate was only 13 and 19% in Groups C and L, respectively. The evaluation of probiotics should not be therefore limited to growth measurements, and should take into account ontogenetic chronology for improving larval quality with such treatments. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Lamari, Faouzi; Mazurais, David] IFREMER, Ctr Brest, UMR LEMAR 6539, Lab Adaptat Reprod Nutr ARN, F-29280 Plouzane, France; [Lamari, Faouzi; Bakhrouf, Amina] Fac Pharm, Lab Anal Traitement & Valorisat Polluants Environ, Monastir 5000, Tunisia; [Castex, Mathieu] Lallemand Anim Nutr, F-31702 Blagnac, France; [Larcher, Thibaut; Ledevin, Mireille] INRA, APEX UMR0703, Oniris, F-44307 Nantes 3, France; [Gatesoupe, Francois-Joel] IFREMER, Ctr Brest, Lab Adaptat Reprod Nutr ARN, INRA,UR Nutr Metab Aquaculture 1067, F-29280 Plouzane, France; [Gatesoupe, Francois-Joel] IFREMER, Ctr Brest, Lab Adaptat Reprod Nutr ARN, INRA,UR Nutr Metab Aquaculture 1067, BP 70, F-29280 Plouzane, France								40							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000313569100020		
J	Cunha, M. R.; Rodrigues, C. F.; Genio, L.; Hilario, A.; Ravara, A.; Pfannkuche, O.								Macrofaunal assemblages from mud volcanoes in the Gulf of Cadiz: abundance, biodiversity and diversity partitioning across spatial scales								BIOGEOSCIENCES				10	4			2553	2568		10.5194/bg-10-2553-2013			2013	2013	The Gulf of Cadiz is an extensive seepage area in the south Iberian margin (NE Atlantic) encompassing over 40 mud volcanoes (MVs) at depths ranging from 200 to 4000 m. The area has a long geologic history and a central biogeographic location with a complex circulation ensuring oceanographic connectivity with the Mediterranean Sea, equatorial and North Atlantic regions. The geodynamics of the region promotes a notorious diversity in the seep regime despite the relatively low fluxes of hydrocarbon-rich gases. We analyse quantitative samples taken during the cruises TTR14, TTR15 and MSM01-03 in seven mud volcanoes grouped into Shallow MVs (Mercator: 350 m, Kidd: 500 m, Meknes: 700 m) and Deep MVs (Captain Arutyunov: 1300 m, Carlos Ribeiro: 2200 m, Bonjardim: 3000 m, Porto: 3900 m) and two additional Reference sites (ca. 550 m). Macrofauna (retained by a 500 mu m sieve) was identified to species level whenever possible. The samples yielded modest abundances (70-1567 individuals per 0.25m(2)), but the local and regional number of species is among the highest ever reported for cold seeps. Among the 366 recorded species, 22 were symbiont-hosting bivalves (Thyasiridae, Vesicomyidae, Solemyidae) and tubeworms (Siboglinidae). The multivariate analyses supported the significant differences between Shallow and Deep MVs: The environmental conditions at the Shallow MVs make them highly permeable to the penetration of background fauna leading to high diversity of the attendant assemblages (H': 2.92-3.94; ES(100): 28.3-45.0; J': 0.685-0.881). The Deep MV assemblages showed, in general, contrasting features but were more heterogeneous (H': 1.41-3.06; ES(100): 10.5-30.5; J': 0.340-0.852) and often dominated by one or more siboglinid species. The rarefaction curves confirmed the differences in biodiversity of Deep and Shallow MVs as well as the convergence of the latter to the Reference sites. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity demonstrated the high beta-diversity of the assemblages, especially in pairwise comparisons involving samples from the Deep MVs. Diversity partitioning assessed for species richness, Hurlbert's expected number of species and Shannon-Wiener index confirmed the high beta-diversity across different spatial scales (within MVs, between MVs, between Deep and Shallow MVs). We suggest that historical and contemporary factors with differential synergies at different depths contribute to the high alpha-, beta- and gamma-diversity of the mud volcano faunal assemblages in the Gulf of Cadiz.		[Cunha, M. R.; Rodrigues, C. F.; Genio, L.; Hilario, A.; Ravara, A.] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, P-3800 Aveiro, Portugal; [Cunha, M. R.; Rodrigues, C. F.; Genio, L.; Hilario, A.; Ravara, A.] Univ Aveiro, CESAM, P-3800 Aveiro, Portugal; [Pfannkuche, O.] Helmholtz Ctr Ocean Res, GEOMAR, Kiel, Germany; [Cunha, M. R.] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, P-3800 Aveiro, Portugal								49							Ecology; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000318434200026		
J	Campos, A. M.; Matavelli, R.; dos Santos, C. L. C.; Moraes, L. S.; Rebelo, J. M. M.								Ecology of Phlebotomines (Diptera: Psychodidae) in a Transitional Area Between the Amazon and the Cerrado in the State of Maranhao, Brazil								JOURNAL OF MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY				50	1			52	58		10.1603/ME12074			JAN 2013	2013	The Amazon rainforest and the Brazilian Cerrado both possess high phlebotomine diversity. The fragmentation of these habitats has resulted in the appearance of human cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis. In one altered area of mixed primary vegetation (forest and Cerrado) and its adjacent settlement in the northeast state of Maranhao, Brazil, evidence exists for the active transmission of cutaneous leishmaniasis. Accordingly, an entomological investigation was performed in both the forest and the settlement to compare the phlebotomine vector fauna in each environment. The study was conducted from September 2009 to August 2010 in the municipality of Itapecuru Mirim in the state of Maranhao, Brazil. The phlebotomine species were captured using 24 light Center for Disease Control and Prevention traps that were placed in the forest and the settlement (peridomicile and intradomicile). The similarity between the phlebotomine compositions in the forest and those in the settlement was determined using a Principal Coordinate Analysis based on a dissimilarity matrix that was calculated using the Bray-Curtis index (relative abundance) and the Jaccard index (presence and absence of species). In total, 29 Lutzomyia species and one Brumptomyia species were collected. The phlebotomines were diverse and abundant in both the forest fragment (27 species, 4,606 specimens) and the settlement (22 species, 753 specimens). The most abundant species were L. infraspinosa (25%), L. davisi (21%), L. antunesi (21%), L. longipalpis (9%), L. saulensis (6%), L. flaviscutellata (5%), and L. wellcomei (4%). Some species were found strictly in the forest, other species were exclusive to the anthropic environment, and some species colonized both of the studied environments. The phlebotomines adaptation to these modified environments explains the autochthonous outbreak of cutaneous leishmaniasis.		[Campos, A. M.; Matavelli, R.] Univ Fed Maranhao, Programa Pos Grad Biodiversidade & Conservacao, BR-65085580 Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil; [dos Santos, C. L. C.; Moraes, L. S.; Rebelo, J. M. M.] Univ Fed Maranhao, Dept Biol, BR-65085580 Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil; [Rebelo, J. M. M.] Univ Fed Maranhao, Dept Patol, Lab Entomol & Vetores, Praca Madre Deus 2, BR-65025560 Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil								9							Entomology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000313570600007		
J	Andrades-Caldito, Lidia; Sanchez-Rivero, Marcelino; Ignacio Pulido-Fernandez, Juan								Differentiating Competitiveness through Tourism Image Assessment: An Application to Andalusia (Spain)								JOURNAL OF TRAVEL RESEARCH				52	1			68	81		10.1177/0047287512451135			JAN 2013	2013	On the basis of the idea that an understanding of tourists' perceptions and preferences will enable destination managers to design actions that are coherent with potential visitors' expectations, this study aims to analyze the destination image perceived by visitors of Andalusia and its provinces over the past decade. A slightly modified Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index is calculated in order to synthesize in a single value the evolution of these destinations' image during that period. The values obtained enable the identification of those provinces whose image has the strongest influence on the overall destination image of Andalusia. An examination is then made of which of the four major competitiveness components proposed by the Calgary Model explain the better or poorer quality of those destination images. Electre II methods are also applied to obtain a ranking of the provinces according to their level of attractiveness, as perceived by tourists.		[Ignacio Pulido-Fernandez, Juan] Univ Jaen, Dept Econ, Jaen 23009, Spain; [Andrades-Caldito, Lidia] Univ Extremadura, Business Management Dept, Badajoz, Spain; [Ignacio Pulido-Fernandez, Juan] Univ Jaen, Dept Econ, Campus Lagunillas S-N, Jaen 23009, Spain								65							Hospitality, Leisure, Sport & Tourism	WOS:000311853300006		
J	Mackensen, Annika K.; Brey, Thomas; Bock, Christian; Luna, Soledad								<i>Spondylus crassisquama</i> Lamarck, 1819 as a microecosystem and the effects of associated macrofauna on its shell integrity: isles of biodiversity or sleeping with the enemy?								MARINE BIODIVERSITY				42	4			443	451		10.1007/s12526-012-0120-9			DEC 2012	2012	In May 2009, we studied the bivalve Spondylus crassisquama and its relevance for macrobenthic biodiversity off the north Ecuadorian coast. We found that the large and heavy shells offer an exclusive substrate for numerous epibiont species and highly specialized carbonate-drilling endobiont species (71 species in total), which is a distinctly different and much more diverse habitat than the surrounding sandy bottoms (13 species, 4 of them found in both habitats). This is reflected by a Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index of 0.88. We discuss in detail the live habits of all 9 species of drilling endobionts that we found, and conclude that these can be seen as true mutualists, with the exception of boring sipunculids and bivalves. To further illustrate this complex co-existence, we visualize and quantify for the first time the tremendous effects of boring organisms on the shell structure of S. crassisquama by means of magnetic resonance imaging and a video appendix is provided.		[Mackensen, Annika K.; Brey, Thomas; Bock, Christian] Alfred Wegener Inst Polar & Marine Res, D-27515 Bremerhaven, Germany; [Mackensen, Annika K.; Luna, Soledad] Nazca Inst Marine Res, Quito, Ecuador; [Mackensen, Annika K.] Alfred Wegener Inst Polar & Marine Res, POB 12 01 61, D-27515 Bremerhaven, Germany								10							Biodiversity Conservation; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000311029000003		
J	Pace, Giorgio; Della Bella, Valentina; Barile, Mariachiara; Andreani, Paolo; Mancini, Laura; Belfiore, Carlo								A comparison of macroinvertebrate and diatom responses to anthropogenic stress in small sized volcanic siliceous streams of Central Italy (Mediterranean Ecoregion)								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				23				544	554		10.1016/j.ecolind.2012.05.010			DEC 2012	2012	The European Water Framework Directive (WFD 2000/60/CE) requires the use of different biological indicators, supporting physicochemical and hydromorphological elements, in the assessment of the ecological status of rivers: in each member state rivers should be at least in a good condition (or good ecological potential if heavily modified) by 2015, and those failing this criterion should be restored. Given that the need for restoration is primarily based on the results from ecological classifications, precision of these classifications is essential. The present study analyzed the relationships of two different biological communities (diatom and macroinvertebrate) when they are used to characterize a set of sites (from reference sites to human-impacted sites) within a single stream type (Mediterranean small sized volcanic-siliceous streams). In particular, we examine the issue of concordance among these communities and the anthropogenic stressors detected, using both multivariate and multimetric approach. Mantel test based on Bray-Curtis distance showed that assemblage dissimilarity between diatom and macroinvertebrate was weakly correlated, dissuading the use of one taxa group as surrogate of the other. The two biological indicators similarly reflected the overall river integrity, but provided complementary information on the specific stressors. Particularly, in accordance to previous studies, our results show that macroinvertebrate assemblage was influenced by water quality (nutrients enrichment and organic pollution) and habitat degradation. On the other hand, same as for benthos, diatom assemblage was regulated by chemical factors (especially nutrients), while did not show strong responses to morphological degradations. In addition, the ecological status of volcanic streams was evaluated by means of the two Intercalibration Common Metrics Indices (ICMi), based, respectively, on macroinvertebrate and diatom communities. The two ICM indices, developed for the Italian biomonitoring program (sensu WFD), were strongly correlated and provided a final classification mainly related to the water quality (nutrient enrichment and organic pollution). However, both indices were less sensitive to the hydromorphological alterations, highlighting the need for the development of stressor specific indices to achieve a complete evaluation of the anthropogenic stress present in the area. Studies of this kind across different disturbance gradients and focused on a particular river type (e.g. Mediterranean small-size volcanic-siliceous streams), will enable the relative merits of the indicators to become apparent and greatly facilitate their appropriate application. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Pace, Giorgio; Barile, Mariachiara; Belfiore, Carlo] Univ Tuscia, Dept Ecol & Econ Sustainable Dev DECOS, Largo Univ, I-01100 Viterbo, VT, Italy; [Mancini, Laura] Natl Inst Hlth ISS, Dept Environm & Primary Prevent, I-00181 Rome, RM, Italy; [Andreani, Paolo] Prov Viterbo, I-01100 Viterbo, VT, Italy; [Della Bella, Valentina] OU Lab, Biomonitoring Unit, Environm Protect Agcy Umbria Reg, ARPA UMBRIA, I-05100 Terni, Italy; [Pace, Giorgio] Univ Barcelona, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol, Freshwater & Management Res Grp FEM, Av Diagonal 645, E-08028 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain								16							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000307130300057		
J	Feio, M. J.; Aguiar, F. C.; Almeida, S. F. P.; Ferreira, M. T.								AQUAFLORA: A predictive model based on diatoms and macrophytes for streams water quality assessment								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				18				586	598		10.1016/j.ecolind.2012.01.016			JUL 2012	2012	According to the Water Framework Directive phytobenthos (diatoms) and macrophytes are part of the same biological element, the aquatic flora, which should be used in monitoring programs for rivers ecological assessment. However, they have been treated separately over time, and different indices are used to reach an Ecological Quality Status. Here we build a predictive model (the AQUAFLORA) based on communities composed of diatoms and macrophytes, with the aim of determining if these two elements of the aquatic flora could be combined in a single model to evaluate the streams ecological quality. For that we used biological and environmental information from 200 reference and 171 disturbed sites distributed through the entire Portuguese mainland territory. After clustering analysis, 5 biological reference groups significantly different (ANOSIM Global R=0.685; p<0.001, 999 permutations) were established, corresponding to sub-sets of reference condition. The most contributive taxa to within groups Bray-Curtis similarity (determined by SIMPER analysis) are a mixture of macrophytes and diatoms. The groups were well discriminated (72%) by the environmental descriptors. Generally, groups 1, 2 and 3 are permanent siliceous rivers located in the north where precipitation is higher and temperatures are lower; while reference groups 4 and 5 correspond to southern streams with higher temperatures, low precipitation with a higher degree of temporality and high hardness and alkalinity. A 5-classes quality system based on Bray-Curtis dissimilarities between the observed flora and the reference groups communities, translated well the human pressures affecting the streams and highlighted the sensitivity of the aquatic flora to other pressures that are not usually considered (hydromorphological, land use). (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Feio, M. J.] Univ Coimbra, Dept Life Sci, IMAR CMA, P-3001401 Coimbra, Portugal; [Aguiar, F. C.; Ferreira, M. T.] Univ Tecn Lisboa, Inst Super Agron, Ctr Estudos Florestais, P-1349017 Lisbon, Portugal; [Almeida, S. F. P.] Univ Aveiro, GeoBioSci GeoTechnol & GeoEngn GeoBioTec Res Unit, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Almeida, S. F. P.] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Feio, M. J.] Univ Coimbra, Dept Life Sci, IMAR CMA, P-3001401 Coimbra, Portugal								27							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000303284500064		
J	Kapfer, Jutta; Audorff, Volker; Beierkuhnlein, Carl; Hertel, Eduard								Do bryophytes show a stronger response than vascular plants to interannual changes in spring water quality?								FRESHWATER SCIENCE				31	2			625	635		10.1899/11-037.1			JUN 2012	2012	Springs are characterized by consistent thermal and hydrologic conditions, which enable use of spring-inhabiting organisms as sensitive indicators of biogeochemical changes in their catchments. We hypothesized that bryophytes would show a stronger response than vascular plants to changes in spring water quality because submerged bryophytes do not take up compounds from the soil. We analyzed species responses to interannual changes in spring water quality (discharge, water temperature, electrical conductivity, and pH) in 57 forest springs over 4 consecutive years. We calculated interannual turnover in species composition for bryophytes and vascular plants with the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. We applied regression analysis to test interannual changes in species composition of the taxonomic groups over time, and we used 2-sided t-tests to compare year-to-year changes in species composition between bryophytes and vascular plants. We used boosted regression tree (BRT) models to quantify the relative importance of different physicochemical variables and Pearson linear correlation to quantify short-term changes in vegetation relative to changes in spring-water pH. For both groups, interannual changes in species composition were significantly positively related to time scale. Bryophytes did not show a significantly stronger response than vascular plants to interannual changes in the environment. Alterations in pH and conductivity explained most of the observed interannual changes in species composition of both groups, whereas changes in water temperature and discharge were less important. However, responses of single species to environmental change may be delayed, resulting in inertia at the community and ecosystem scales. Hence, longer time periods need to be considered for a better understanding of response times of the vegetation of European forest springs to changes in spring water quality.		[Kapfer, Jutta] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, N-5006 Bergen, Norway; [Kapfer, Jutta] Norwegian Forest & Landscape Inst, N-9269 Tromso, Norway; [Audorff, Volker; Beierkuhnlein, Carl] Univ Bayreuth, Bayreuth Ctr Ecol & Environm Res BayCEER, Dept Biogeog, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Hertel, Eduard] Univ Bayreuth, Ecol Bot Garden, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Kapfer, Jutta] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, Thormohlensgate 53A, N-5006 Bergen, Norway								16							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000309904800025		
J	de la Pena-Cuellar, Erika; Stoner, Kathryn E.; Daniel Avila-Cabadilla, Luis; Martinez-Ramos, Miguel; Estrada, Alejando								Phyllostomid bat assemblages in different successional stages of tropical rain forest in Chiapas, Mexico								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				21	6			1381	1397		10.1007/s10531-012-0249-7			JUN 2012	2012	Due to their role in seed dispersal, changes in the community of phyllostomid bats have direct consequences on ecological succession. The objective of this work was to document changes in the structure of bat assemblages among secondary successional stages of tropical rain forest in Chiapas, Mexico. Bats were mist-netted at ground level during 18 months in 10 sites belonging to 3 successional stages: four sites represented early succession (2-8 years of abandonment), four intermediate succession (10-20 years of abandonment), and two late succession (mature old-growth forest).We captured 1,179 phyllostomids comprising 29 species. Phyllostomid species richness was 17 (58% of all species) in the early stage, 18 (62%) in the intermediate stage and 24 (83%) in the late stage. The late successional mature forest possessed nine species that were exclusively found there, whereas early and intermediate successional stages contained only one exclusive species. Sturnira lilium, Artibeus lituratus, Carollia perpicillata, Artibeus jamaicensis and Glossophaga soricina represented 88% of all captured phyllostomid bats. Frugivores made up more than 90% of the species captured in early and intermediate successional stages and 84% in late successional forest. The Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity showed a replacement of species through successional stages with the largest dissimilarity between early and late stages, followed by intermediate and late, and the lowest dissimilarity between early and intermediate stages. The number of gleaning insectivore species increased during succession. The carnivorous guild was exclusively found in the late stage (three species). We conclude that the late successional mature forest was the main reservoir for the gleaning insectivore and carnivore guilds; however, early and intermediate successional stages possessed a great diversity of species including many frugivores.		[Stoner, Kathryn E.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Biol & Hlth Sci, Kingsville, TX 78363 USA; [de la Pena-Cuellar, Erika; Daniel Avila-Cabadilla, Luis; Martinez-Ramos, Miguel] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Ctr Invest Ecosistemas, Morelia 58089, Michoacan, Mexico; [Estrada, Alejando] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Biol, Estn Biol Los Tuxtlas, San Andres Tuxtla, Veracruz, Mexico; [Stoner, Kathryn E.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Biol & Hlth Sci, MSC 158,700 Univ Blvd, Kingsville, TX 78363 USA								27							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000303508800003		
J	Bardhan, Sougata; Jose, Shibu; Biswas, Shampa; Kabir, Kazi; Rogers, Wendi								Homegarden agroforestry systems: an intermediary for biodiversity conservation in Bangladesh								AGROFORESTRY SYSTEMS				85	1			29	34		10.1007/s10457-012-9515-7			MAY 2012	2012	Biodiversity conservation is one of the important ecosystem services that has been negatively impacted by anthropogenic activities. Natural forests (NF) harbor some of the highest species diversity around the world. However, deforestation and degradation have resulted in reduced forest land cover and loss of diversity. Homegarden agroforestry (AF) systems have been proven to be an intermediary for biodiversity conservation. In this study, we evaluate the effectiveness of home garden AF practices to conserve tree species diversity in Bangladesh and compare them with tree species diversity in NF. A total of nine locations were selected for this synthesis from published literature which comprised of five AF sites and four NFs. Shannon-Weiner Diversity Index (H) was similar for home-garden AF (3.50) and NF (2.99), with no statistical difference between them. Based on non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination analysis, the AF and NF plots showed distinct separation. However, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index ranged from 0.95 to 0.70 indicating nearly no overlap in species composition to significant overlap between AF and NF. Based on our results, we conclude that AF can serve as an important ecological tool in conserving tree species diversity, particularly on landscapes where NF fragments represent only a small fraction of the total land area. Creating and maintaining AF habitats in such human dominated landscapes should be part of the biodiversity conservation strategy.		[Bardhan, Sougata; Jose, Shibu; Rogers, Wendi] Univ Missouri, Ctr Agroforestry, Columbia, MO 65211 USA; [Biswas, Shampa] Independent Univ, Sch Environm Sci & Management, Dhaka 1229, Bangladesh; [Biswas, Shampa] Washington State Univ, Grad & Profess Writing Ctr, Smith CUE, Pullman, WA 99164 USA; [Kabir, Kazi] WorldFish Ctr Bangladesh Off, Dhaka 1213, Bangladesh; [Bardhan, Sougata] Univ Missouri, Ctr Agroforestry, 203 Anheuser Busch Nat Resources Bldg, Columbia, MO 65211 USA								46							Agronomy; Forestry	WOS:000304153100003		
J	Shuey, John A.; Metzler, Eric H.; Tungesvick, Kevin								Moth Communities Correspond with Plant Communities in Midwestern (Indiana, USA) Sand Prairies and Oak Barrens and Their Degradation Endpoints								AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST				167	2			273	284		10.1674/0003-0031-167.2.273			APR 2012	2012	Despite immense diversity, insect conservation is typically species specific. Effective insect conservation will require efforts that capture insect species and communities at all levels of biological organization. Surrogate conservation targets, such as habitat based conservation planning tools were designed to capture poorly understood taxa such as invertebrates. We evaluated a botanically-based community filter across disturbance gradients in NW Indiana to determine if moth communities (Lepidoptera) responded similarly to vascular plant assemblages. Our 13 sample sites included high-quality ecosystem remnants (sand prairies and oak barrens) and their local degradation endpoints (exotic old fields and fire-suppressed oak woodlands). Monthly, we quantitatively sampled moths using ultraviolet light traps and inventoried vascular plant species at each sample site. Analysis of moth and plant community relationships using Bray-Curtis coefficients of dissimilarity produced statistically congruent relationships between moth and plant assemblages at. the sample sites indicating that these two taxonomic groups respond to ecological gradients and disturbance similarly. Other measures of botanical community integrity used to select conservation areas such as floristic quality assessment index and diversity indices do not translate directly to measures of moth species richness or diversity:We suggest that, in this system, vascular plant assemblages are a reasonable conservation surrogate for moth communities.		[Shuey, John A.] Nature Conservancy, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA; [Metzler, Eric H.] Michigan State Univ, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Metzler, Eric H.] Natl Museum Nat Hist, Alamogordo, NM 88311 USA; [Tungesvick, Kevin] Spence Restorat Nursery, Muncie, IN 47302 USA; [Shuey, John A.] Nature Conservancy, 620 E Ohio St, Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA								7							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000302755600005		
J	Pan, Yangdong; Hughes, Robert M.; Herlihy, Alan T.; Kaufmann, Philip R.								Non-wadeable river bioassessment: spatial variation of benthic diatom assemblages in Pacific Northwest rivers, USA								HYDROBIOLOGIA				684	1			241	260		10.1007/s10750-011-0990-z			MAR 2012	2012	Current bioassessment efforts are focused on small wadeable streams, at least partly because assessing ecological conditions in non-wadeable large rivers poses many additional challenges. In this study, we sampled 20 sites in each of seven large rivers in the Pacific Northwest, USA, to characterize variation of benthic diatom assemblages among and within rivers relative to environmental conditions. Analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) indicated that diatom assemblages were significantly different among all the seven rivers draining different ecoregions. Longitudinal patterns in diatom assemblages showed river-specific features. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index values did not increase as a function of spatial distance among the sampled reaches within any river but the Malheur. Standardized Mantel r of association between assemblage similarity and spatial distance among sites ranged from a high of 0.69 (Malheur) to a low of 0.18 (Chehalis). In the Malheur River, % monoraphids, nitrogen-tolerant taxa, and beta-mesosaprobous taxa all decreased longitudinally while % motile taxa, especially Nitzschia, showed an opposite trend, reflecting a strong in-stream water quality gradient. Similar longitudinal trends in water quality were observed in other rivers but benthic diatom assemblages showed either weak response patterns or no patterns. Our study indicated that benthic diatom assemblages can clearly reflect among-river factors. The relationships between benthic diatom assemblages and water quality within each river may depend on the strength of the water quality gradients, interactive effects of water quality and habitat conditions, and diatom sampling design.		[Pan, Yangdong] Portland State Univ, Portland, OR 97207 USA; [Hughes, Robert M.] Amnis Opes Inst, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA; [Hughes, Robert M.] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Biol, BR-37200000 Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Herlihy, Alan T.] Oregon State Univ, US EPA, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA; [Pan, Yangdong] Portland State Univ, Portland, OR 97207 USA								11							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000300329600017		
J	Bonato, Karine Orlandi; Delariva, Rosilene Luciana; da Silva, Jislaine Cristina								Diet and trophic guilds of fish assemblages in two streams with different anthropic impacts in the northwest of Parana, Brazil								ZOOLOGIA				29	1			27	38		10.1590/S1984-46702012000100004			FEB 2012	2012	In the present study, we describe the diets of the fish assemblages in two streams in the Maringa region of Parana that are under the influence of different anthropic impacts. We also evaluate how the origin and use of food resources varies temporally and spatially and how the trophic organization of the fish assemblages differs between the two streams. Fish were collected every two months from October 2006 to October 2007 using sieves, seining and closing nets along two 50 m stretches of each stream. We used the volumetric method to analyze the stomach contents of 599 fish belonging to 15 species. We then employed ANOSIM, SIMPER, NMDS and cluster analyses (using the Bray-Curtis index) to examine how different factors (species, stream, sampling site and season) influenced the diets of the assemblages. The dietary analysis revealed a total of 21 types of items consumed, with the most common being detritus and immature Diptera. Spatial factors resulted in differences in diets between the two streams, with detritus representing the material consumed most often in the Morangueiro stream and immature Diptera being the most consumed item in the Quecaba stream. SIMPER analysis indicated a 76.33% dissimilarity between species' diets during the dry and rainy seasons, with detritus, immature Diptera and testate amoebae making the greatest contributions to this differentiation. In the Morangueiro stream, three trophic guilds were found: detritivorous, detritivorous/aquatic insectivorous, and aquatic insectivorous. In Quecaba stream, six trophic guilds were present: detritivorous, benthophagous, aquatic insectivorous, terrestrial insectivorous, herbivorous and carnivorous. Autochthonous items were generally the items most consumed by species, in particularly in the Quecaba stream. In the Morangueiro stream, food items of indeterminate origin were more relevant. The differences in the diets of fish species between the two streams support the conclusion that urbanization causes the disruption of aquatic environments and trophic organization.		[Delariva, Rosilene Luciana; da Silva, Jislaine Cristina] Univ Estadual Oeste Parana, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Programa Posgrad Conservacao & Manejo Recursos Na, BR-85819110 Cascavel, PR, Brazil; [Bonato, Karine Orlandi] Univ Fed Parana, Dept Zool, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Biol Zool, BR-87531980 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Delariva, Rosilene Luciana] Univ Estadual Oeste Parana, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Programa Posgrad Conservacao & Manejo Recursos Na, Rua Univ 2069,Caixa Postal 711, BR-85819110 Cascavel, PR, Brazil								26							Zoology	WOS:000301635100004		
J	Ben Ismail, Dorsaf; Rabaoui, Lotfi; Diawara, Moktar; Ben Hassine, Oum Kalthoum								The Bryozoan assemblages and their relationship with certain environmental factors along the shallow and subtidal Tunisian coasts								CAHIERS DE BIOLOGIE MARINE				53	2			231	242					2012	2012	In this study, bryozoan communities were investigated along the Tunisian coastline, using both univariate and multivariate analyses. Seven populations situated at different localities belonging to different geographic sectors, were sampled, and the communities were analysed and compared taking into account different environmental factors. The analysis of similarity (ANOSIM) showed that the population structure of Bryozoans seems to be influenced by "geographic location", "habitat type" and "substratum type" factors. The latter two factors seemed to be linked since each habitat type was characterized by a special type of substratum. The similarity percentage (SIMPER) analysis showed that each analysed community was dominated by some particular species. In fact, some bryozoan species were exclusive to marine sites, while others were exclusive to lagoons. In addition, bryozoan community was qualitatively richer in marine sites than that in lagoons. The species Electra posidoniae, Collarina balzaci and Microporella ciliata were found to be the most contributing to the dissimilarity between the two habitat types. The marine/lagoon discrimination obtained with univariate analyses was also confirmed by multivariate ones i.e. non metrical MDS and Bray-Curtis similarity. In terms of constancy index, the majority of assemblages was dominated by "not very common" species.		[Ben Ismail, Dorsaf; Rabaoui, Lotfi; Diawara, Moktar; Ben Hassine, Oum Kalthoum] Tunis El Manar Univ, Res Unit Biol Ecol & Parasitol Aquat Organisms, Dept Biol, Fac Sci Tunis, Tunis 2092, Tunisia; [Ben Hassine, Oum Kalthoum] Tunis El Manar Univ, Res Unit Biol Ecol & Parasitol Aquat Organisms, Dept Biol, Fac Sci Tunis, Tunis 2092, Tunisia								10							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000303077600010		
J	Chinnayakanahalli, Kiran J.; Hawkins, Charles P.; Tarboton, David G.; Hill, Ryan A.								Natural flow regime, temperature and the composition and richness of invertebrate assemblages in streams of the western United States								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				56	7			1248	1265		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2010.02560.x			JUL 2011	2011	1. We tested how strongly aquatic macroinvertebrate taxa richness and composition were associated with natural variation in both flow regime and stream temperatures across streams of the western United States. 2. We used long-term flow records from 543 minimally impacted gauged streams to quantify 12 streamflow variables thought to be ecologically important. A principal component analysis reduced the dimensionality of the data from 12 variables to seven principal component (PC) factors that characterised statistically independent aspects of streamflow: (1) zero flow days, (2) flow magnitude, (3) predictability, (4) flood duration, (5) seasonality, (6) flashiness and (7) base flow. K-means clustering was used to group streams into 4-8 hydrologically different classes based on these seven factors. 3. We also used empirical models to estimate mean annual, mean summer and mean winter stream temperatures at each stream site. We then used invertebrate data from 63 sites to develop Random Forest models to predict taxa richness and taxon-specific probabilities of capture at a site from flow and temperature. We used the predicted taxonspecific probabilities of capture to estimate how well predicted assemblages matched observed assemblages as measured by RIVPACS-type observed/expected (O/E) indices and Bray-Curtis dissimilarities. 4. Macroinvertebrate taxon richness was only weakly associated with streamflow and temperature variables, implying that other factors more strongly influenced taxa richness. 5. In contrast to taxa richness, taxa composition was strongly associated with streamflow and temperature. Predictions of taxa composition (O/E and Bray-Curtis) were most precise when both temperature and streamflow PC factors were used, although predictions based on either streamflow PC factors or temperature alone were also better than null model predictions. Of the seven aspects of the streamflow regime we examined, variation in baseflow conditions appeared to be most directly associated with invertebrate biotic composition. We were also able to predict assemblage composition from the conditional probabilities of hydrological class membership nearly as well as Random Forests models that were based directly on continuous PC factors. 6. Our results have direct implication for understanding the relative importance of streamflow and temperature in regulating the structure and composition of stream assemblages and for improving the accuracy and precision of biological assessments.		[Hawkins, Charles P.; Hill, Ryan A.] Utah State Univ, Dept Watershed Sci, Western Ctr Monitoring & Assessment Freshwater Ec, Ctr Ecol, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Chinnayakanahalli, Kiran J.] Washington State Univ, Water Res Ctr, Albrook 202B, Pullman, WA 99164 USA								60							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000292407000002		
J	Buitenwerf, Robert; Swemmer, Anthony M.; Peel, Mike J. S.								Long-term dynamics of herbaceous vegetation structure and composition in two African savanna reserves								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY				48	1			238	246		10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01895.x			FEB 2011	2011	P>1. Small fenced reserves are perceived to require management interventions to maintain ecosystems in a natural state. Such interventions are typically initiated and assessed on the basis of short-term observations, while slow changes are often misunderstood or missed entirely. Long-term monitoring is therefore crucial to understand the effect of reserve management on ecosystem structure and functioning. 2. We analysed a 15-year data set of herbaceous vegetation data for 59 monitoring sites in two nature reserves of different size and with different management regimes in a semi-arid, South African savanna. Community composition and vegetation structure (basal cover) were assessed in response to rainfall and management variables. 3. No directional changes over time were found. Basal cover as measured by two proxies (distance to the nearest tuft and tuft diameter) increased with current and previous year rainfall. The relative abundance of functional groups also responded to rainfall, with perennial grasses increasing in relative abundance following a wet year. Compositional responses, as measured by a dissimilarity index of species relative abundance, showed a 2-year lag and responses were larger following dry years than wet years. 4. The response to rainfall of distance to the nearest tuft was significantly weaker in the smaller reserve, while compositional change during dry years was larger than in the larger reserve. 5. Synthesis and applications. Most of the variation in herbaceous basal cover and community composition was associated with differences between years (time) at each site, rather than with differences between sites (space), indicating that inter-annual variation in rainfall is the most important driver of herbaceous layer dynamics in these systems. However, management did modify the effects of rainfall on herbaceous structure and community composition. The smaller reserve, which had higher grazer and waterhole density, showed greater fluctuations in key herbaceous variables. Such reserves are common in southern Africa and probably require more careful management than larger reserves in the face of global climate change.		[Buitenwerf, Robert; Swemmer, Anthony M.] SAEON Ndlovu Node, ZA-1390 Phalaborwa, South Africa; [Peel, Mike J. S.] Anim Prod Inst, Agr Res Council, ZA-1200 Nelspruit, South Africa; [Buitenwerf, Robert] SAEON Ndlovu Node, Private Bag X1020, ZA-1390 Phalaborwa, South Africa								36							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000286000100028		
J	Mukherjee, B.; Nivedita, M.; Mukherjee, D.								Plankton diversity and dynamics in a polluted eutrophic lake, Ranchi								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				31	5			827	839					SEP 2010	2010	The species diversity of a cultural eutrophic lake at Ranchi was studied in relation to external variables (forcing functions) and internal or state variables. The lake receives daily detergent inputs in the form of washings of a variety of objects. A model was constructed for the estimation of detergent inputs from the increase in the phosphate concentration, and from changes in the concentration of inorganic carbon. Nutrients such as inorganic carbon, nitrates, phosphates, sulphates were found to be high in contrast to natural unpolluted systems. The DOM, COD and BOD were also found to be high suggesting organic pollution of the system with an organic carbon load of 5.4 m moles I-1. The growth and development of the plankton constituents was studied in this regime. The natural planktonic rhythm was found to be modified by the polluted condition existing in the lake. The phytoplankton exhibited four peaks in March, May August, and November while, the zooplankton showed three peaks in February, July and October The abundance of zooplankton during the annual cycle oscillated with that of the phytoplankton. There was much more evenness in the zooplankton population in comparison to the phytoplankton. Analysis of both, the zooplankton as well as the phytoplankton population was done using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, importance value index and Shannon-Weaver diversity index. The importance value index was found to provide a better evaluation of the plankton community than the diversity index. The phytoplankton population showed no correlation with nutrient availability as indicated by the correlation-regression analysis and the planktonic rhythm was not in tune with normal unpolluted conditions. The lake was classified as meso-polysaprobic using biological and chemical indices (Pantle and Buck index:3.5, BOD:60; DOM:9.3 and COD: 130).		[Mukherjee, B.; Nivedita, M.; Mukherjee, D.] Ranchi Coll, PG Dept Zool, Sect Environm Biol, Ranchi 834008, Bihar, India; [Mukherjee, B.] Ranchi Coll, PG Dept Zool, Sect Environm Biol, Ranchi 834008, Bihar, India								20							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000281449300015		
J	Krause, Rachel J.; McLaughlin, J. Daniel; Marcogliese, David J.								Parasite fauna of Etheostoma nigrum (Percidae: Etheostomatinae) in localities of varying pollution stress in the St. Lawrence River, Quebec, Canada								PARASITOLOGY RESEARCH				107	2			285	294		10.1007/s00436-010-1862-6			JUL 2010	2010	Parasite communities were examined in johnny darters (Etheostoma nigrum) collected from five localities in the St. Lawrence River in southwestern Quebec: two reference localities, one polluted locality upstream of the Island of Montreal and downstream of industrial and agricultural activity, and two polluted localities downstream of the Island of Montreal in the plume from the wastewater treatment facility. Twenty-four helminth species were found. Fish from the upstream polluted locality had the highest parasite species richness and total parasite numbers, and fish from the downstream polluted localities the lowest. Nonmetric multivariate analyses were conducted using square-root-transformed Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. An analysis of similarity, dendrogram of centroids, and a permutational multivariate analysis of variance with contrasts all showed that fish from the reference localities had different parasite community composition than those from the polluted localities, and fish from the upstream polluted locality had different parasite communities than fish from the downstream polluted localities. Differences between reference and polluted localities were mainly due to higher abundances of the brain-encysting trematode, Ornithodiplostomum sp., at the reference localities. Differences between upstream and downstream polluted localities were mainly due to a higher diversity and abundance of trematodes in fish at the upstream locality.		[Krause, Rachel J.] McGill Univ, Inst Parasitol, Ste Anne De Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada; [McLaughlin, J. Daniel] Concordia Univ, Dept Biol, Montreal, PQ H4B 1R6, Canada; [Marcogliese, David J.] Environm Canada, Fluvial Ecosyst Res Sect, Aquat Ecosyst Protect Res Div, Water Sci & Technol Directorate,Sci & Technol Bra, Montreal, PQ H2Y 2E7, Canada; [Krause, Rachel J.] McGill Univ, Inst Parasitol, Macdonald Campus,21 111 Lakeshore Rd, Ste Anne De Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada								20							Parasitology	WOS:000279598800005		
J	Krasnov, Boris R.; Mouillot, David; Shenbrot, Georgy I.; Khokhlova, Irina S.; Poulin, Robert								Deconstructing spatial patterns in species composition of ectoparasite communities: the relative contribution of host composition, environmental variables and geography								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				19	4			515	526		10.1111/j.1466-8238.2010.00529.x			JUL 2010	2010	Aim We determined whether dissimilarity in species composition between parasite communities depends on geographic distance, environmental dissimilarity or host faunal dissimilarity, for different subsets of parasite species with different levels of host specificity. Location Communities of fleas parasitic on small mammals from 28 different regions of the Palaearctic. Method Dissimilarities in both parasite and host species composition were computed between each pair of regions using the Bray-Curtis index. Geographic distances between regions were also calculated, as were measures of environmental dissimilarity consisting of the pairwise Euclidean distances between regions derived from elevation, vegetation and climatic variables. The 136 flea species included in the dataset were divided into highly host-specific species (using 1-2 host species per region, on average), moderately host-specific species (2.2-4 hosts per region) and generalist species (> 4 hosts per region). The relative influence of geographic distance, host faunal dissimilarity and environmental dissimilarity on dissimilarity of flea species composition among all regions was analysed for the entire set of flea species as well as for the three above subsets using multiple regressions on distance matrices. Results When including all flea species, dissimilarity in flea species composition was affected by all three independent variables, although the pure effect of dissimilarity in host species composition was the strongest. Results were different when the subsets of fleas differing in host specificity were treated separately. In particular, dissimilarity in species composition of highly host-specific fleas increased solely with environmental dissimilarity, whereas dissimilarity for both moderately specific and non-specific fleas increased with both geographic distance and dissimilarity in host species composition. Main conclusions Host specificity seems to dictate which of the three factors considered is most likely to affect the dissimilarity between flea communities. Counter-intuitively, environmental dissimilarity played a key role in determining dissimilarity in species composition of highly host-specific fleas, possibly because, although their presence in a region relies on the occurrence of particular host species, their abundance is itself mostly determined by climatic conditions. Our results show that deconstructing communities into subsets of species with different traits can make it easier to uncover the mechanisms shaping geographic patterns of diversity.		[Krasnov, Boris R.; Shenbrot, Georgy I.] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Jacob Blaustein Inst Desert Res, Mitrani Dept Desert Ecol, Inst Dryland Environm Res, IL-84990 Midreshet Ben Gurion, Israel; [Mouillot, David] Univ Montpellier 2, UMR CNRS UM2 IFREMER IRD Ecosyst Lagunaires 5119, FR-34095 Montpellier 5, France; [Khokhlova, Irina S.] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Jacob Blaustein Inst Desert Res, Wyler Dept Dryland Agr, French Associates Inst Agr & Biotechnol Drylands, IL-84990 Midreshet Ben Gurion, Israel; [Poulin, Robert] Univ Otago, Dept Zool, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand; [Krasnov, Boris R.] Ben Gurion Univ Negev, Jacob Blaustein Inst Desert Res, Mitrani Dept Desert Ecol, Inst Dryland Environm Res, Sede Boqer Campus, IL-84990 Midreshet Ben Gurion, Israel								36							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000278566200010		
J	Ricotta, C.; Bacaro, G.								On plot-to-plot dissimilarity measures based on species functional traits								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				11	1			113	119		10.1556/ComEc.11.2010.1.16			JUN 2010	2010	There are many different metrics for expressing the dissimilarity between two samples or plots. The large majority of these dissimilarity measures attempt to summarize different aspects of plot-to-plot dissimilarity based either on species presences and absences within plots or on species abundances. Here, we propose a new parametric measure of plot-to-plot functional dissimilarity that incorporates information about the degree of functional dissimilarity between species. This measure is obtained from the combination of Hurlbert's 'expected species diversity' with one dissimilarity coefficient of the 'Bray-Curtis family' and calculates the expected functional dissimilarity between the species in plot A and their functional nearest neighbors in plot B if m individuals are chosen randomly with replacement from each of the two plots. Due to its parametric nature, the proposed measure has a different sensitivity to the presence of rare and abundant species within plots as a function of the selected parameter value.		[Ricotta, C.] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Bacaro, G.] Univ Siena, Dept Environm Sci G Sarfatti, BIOCONNET, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Ricotta, C.] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								11							Ecology	WOS:000278917700016		
J	Hawkins, Charles P.; Cao, Yong; Roper, Brett								Method of predicting reference condition biota affects the performance and interpretation of ecological indices								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				55	5			1066	1085		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2009.02357.x			MAY 2010	2010	1. The statistical rigour and interpretability of ecological assessments is strongly affected by how well we predict the biological assemblages expected to occur in the absence of human-caused stress, i.e. the reference condition. In this study, we examined how the specific method used to predict the reference condition affected the performance of two commonly used types of ecological index: RIVPACS-based O/E indices and multimetric indices (MMIs). 2. These two types of index have generally relied on different approaches to predicting the reference condition. For MMIs, some type of regionalisation is typically used to describe the range of metric values among reference sites and hence the expected range at assessed sites. For O/E indices, continuous modelling is used to predict how the biota varies among sites both among and within regions. Because the prediction method differs for these two types of index, it has been impossible to judge if differences in index performance (accuracy, precision, responsiveness and sensitivity) are caused by differences in the way reference condition biota are predicted or by differences in what the indices measure. 3. We used a common data set of 94 reference sites and 255 managed sites and the same potential set of predictor variables to compare the performance of five different MMIs and three O/E indices that were derived from different prediction methods: null models, multiple linear regression (MLR), classification and regression trees, Random Forests (RF) and linear discriminant functions models (LDM). We then calculated values of these indices for samples collected from the managed catchments as well as samples collected from 13 reference sites that were progressively altered in known ways by a simulation programme. 4. Both the type of predictor used and the type of index affected overall index performance. Modelled indices generally had the greatest sensitivity in assessing managed sites as biologically different from reference. Index sensitivity was determined by both an aspect of index precision (10th percentile of reference condition values) and responsiveness. The O/E indices showed the best scope of response to known biological alteration. All three O/E indices decreased linearly in response to simulated alteration in both overall assemblage structure (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) and taxa loss. The MMIs declined linearly from low to intermediate levels of assemblage alteration but were less responsive between intermediate and high levels of biological alteration. 5. Insights gained from simulations can aid in testing assumptions regarding index response to stress and help ensure that we select indices that are ecologically interpretable and most useful to resource managers.		[Hawkins, Charles P.; Cao, Yong; Roper, Brett] Utah State Univ, Dept Watershed Sci, Ctr Ecol, Western Ctr Monitoring & Assessment Freshwater Ec, Logan, UT 84322 USA; [Roper, Brett] US Forest Serv, Fish & Aquat Ecol Unit, Forestry Sci Lab, USDA, Logan, UT USA; [Hawkins, Charles P.] Utah State Univ, Dept Watershed Sci, Ctr Ecol, Western Ctr Monitoring & Assessment Freshwater Ec, Logan, UT 84322 USA								97							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000276655200011		
J	Padisak, Judit; Hajnal, Eva; Naselli-Flores, Luigi; Dokulil, Martin T.; Noges, Peeter; Zohary, Tamar								Convergence and divergence in organization of phytoplankton communities under various regimes of physical and biological control								HYDROBIOLOGIA				639	1			205	220		10.1007/s10750-009-0021-5			FEB 2010	2010	The hypothesis that physical constraints may be as important, if not more important, than biological ones in shaping the structure of phytoplankton assemblage was tested by analyzing long-term (11-29 years) phytoplankton series in eight lakes and nine sites located along a latitudinal gradient in the Northern hemisphere. Phytoplankton biomass was used and similarity of assemblages in same months of the annual data sets was then calculated by subtracting the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index from 1. The extent of biological and physical forcing was partly based on "expert evaluation": the importance of four physical (light availability, temperature, conductivity, and sediment stirring up) and five biological variables (basic nutrients [SRP-, DIN-, SRSi-availability] as estimators of competition straight, importance of grazing, and importance of parasitism) was evaluated month by month by arbitrarily scaling from 1 to 5 the intensity of each variable and then summing them in the appropriate subgroup. Since the number of physical variables is less than that of the biological ones, the latter was rescaled to reach the same maximum attainable value of physical variables. The results showed an extremely high variability, making evident that each lake, although showing the same metabolic processes, behaves as an individual with regard to its phytoplankton structure. More generally, it was possible to highlight a largely more important role of physical constraints in shaping both biomass and composition of phytoplankton. This is especially true in winter. In addition, the results were compared to the outcomes of the PEG model, since a plasticity in the structure of phytoplankton much greater than that reported in this widely acknowledged model has been recorded in the data set used. This high variability found in this study in relation to physical constraints might also explain the different patterns of phytoplankton growth observed from Northern temperate to Mediterranean lakes as well as those occurring in shallow and deep lakes.		[Padisak, Judit; Hajnal, Eva] Univ Pannonia, Dept Limnol, H-8200 Veszprem, Hungary; [Padisak, Judit] Leibniz Inst Aquat Ecol & Inland Fishery, D-16775 Neuglobsow, Germany; [Naselli-Flores, Luigi] Univ Palermo, Dept Bot Sci, I-90123 Palermo, Italy; [Dokulil, Martin T.] Univ Vienna, Dept Limnol & Hydrobot, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Noges, Peeter] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Ctr Limnol, Tartu, Estonia; [Zohary, Tamar] Israel Oceanog & Limnol Res, Kinneret Limnol Lab, IL-14950 Migdal, Israel; [Padisak, Judit] Univ Pannonia, Dept Limnol, Egyet U 10, H-8200 Veszprem, Hungary				15th Workshop of the International-Association-of-Phytoplankton-Taxonomy-and-Ecology	NOV 23-30, 2008	Int Assoc Phytoplankton Taxon & Ecol	Golan Heights, ISRAEL	36							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000273447500018		
J	Akbulut, Mehmet; Odabasi, Deniz Anil; Kaya, Hasan; Celik, Ekrem Sanver; Yildirim, M. Zeki; Odabasi, Serpil; Selvi, Kahraman								Changing of Mollusca Fauna In Comparison With Water Quality: Saricay Creek and Atikhisar Reservoir Models (Canakkale-Turkey)								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL AND VETERINARY ADVANCES				8	12			2699	2707					DEC 2009	2009	Species composition, abundance and monthly distribution of the Mollusca fauna and the physicochemical variables of Saricay Creek and Atikhisar Reservoir have been investigated between September 2005-August 2006. Mollusca fauna in Saricay Creek and Atikhisar Reservoir was represented by 21 species of Gastropoda and 8 species of Bivalvia. Diversity, dominance and frequency were recorded monthly. By assessing the data via Shannon-Wiener index, Saricay Creek had an index of 2.58 richness at 8th station while, third station in Atikhisar Reservoir had the poorest with an index of 0.02. According to Bray-Curtis similarity index, the first and third stations were found to be very similar to each other, while 8th and 66 h stations were observed to be the most different from all of the other stations in terms of the dynamics of mollusca fauna. Dreissena polmorpha were the most dominant of 47.16% and frequent species of 48.96%, especially encountered in the Atikhisar Reservoir. The results of One-way Analysis of Similarity (ANOSIM) showed that mollusca compositions were significantly different between sampling sites (p<0.05). ANOSIM and Similarity Percentage analysis (SIMPER) revealed significant differences and a high degree of community dissimilarity within and between the sampling stations. The relationship between the dynamics of organisms and environmental parameters were analyzed using Canonical Correspondence Analysis. This study pointed out that water quality parameters especially COD, BOD, Anionic Detergent, salinity, TP, TN, temperature were effective on the abundance and distribution of Mollusca fauna.		[Akbulut, Mehmet; Odabasi, Deniz Anil; Kaya, Hasan; Celik, Ekrem Sanver; Odabasi, Serpil; Selvi, Kahraman] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Su Urunleri Fak, Temel Bilimler Bolumu, Canakkale, Turkey; [Yildirim, M. Zeki] Mehmet Akif Ersoy Univ, Egitim Fac Biy, Ogretmenligi Bol Burdur, Turkey; [Akbulut, Mehmet] Canakkale Onsekiz Mart Univ, Su Urunleri Fak, Temel Bilimler Bolumu, Canakkale, Turkey								8							Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000271623400052		
J	Danell-Jimenez, A.; Sanchez-Velasco, L.; Lavin, M. F.; Marinone, S. G.								Three-dimensional distribution of larval fish assemblages across a surface thermal/chlorophyll front in a semienclosed sea								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				85	3			487	496		10.1016/j.ecss.2009.09.010			NOV 30 2009	2009	The oceanographic processes involved in marine fronts and their effects on the plankton are still a challenge in the understanding of marine ecosystems. This study examines the relationship of the three-dimensional distribution of larval fish assemblages (LFAs) with hydrography on a tidal-mixing surface thermal/chlorophyll front in the highly productive midriff archipelago of the Gulf of California during summer (August, 2005). Zooplankton samples were obtained on both sides of the front with an opening-closing net (505 pm) in 50-m strata from the surface to 200 m depth. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index defined three strata groups with different LFAs. On the cool side of the front, characterized by high chlorophyll, salinity, and dissolved oxygen, an LFA with the lowest larval abundance (97 larvae/10 m(2)) and low taxa number (44) was defined. On the warm side of the front, where the lowest concentrations of surface dissolved oxygen and surface chlorophyll were recorded, an LFA was defined on the pycnocline, with the highest mean larval abundance and number of taxa (927 larvae/10 m(2) and 109 taxa); it was composed of epipelagic, mesopelagic, and demersal species. Also on the warm side of the front, but below the pycnocline, an LFA was observed with medium larval abundance and taxa number (126 larvae/10 m(2) and 28 taxa), formed by mesopelagic species. This assemblage was absent from the cool area to the northwest of the front, mainly from 150 to 50 m depth, where maximum-salinity water from the Northern Gulf was found. We conclude that the surface thermal/chlorophyll front had a profound effect on LFAs distribution in the surface layer, while the southward intrusion of maximum-salinity water from the Northern Gulf bounded the LFAs distribution in the deeper layer under the pycnocline. Therefore, in addition to the surface thermal/chlorophyll front, the hydrographic processes associated with the Gulfs seasonal and thermohaline circulation affect the LFAs three-dimensional distribution. Similar relationships may occur in other ocean ecosystems. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Danell-Jimenez, A.; Sanchez-Velasco, L.] Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, La Paz 23000, Bcs, Mexico; [Lavin, M. F.; Marinone, S. G.] Ctr Invest Cient & Educ Super Ensenada, Ensenada 22860, Baja California, Mexico; [Sanchez-Velasco, L.] Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, Av Inst Politecn Nacl S-N Col Playa Palo Sta Rita, La Paz 23000, Bcs, Mexico								37							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000272286000015		
J	Lorenzo, Purificacion; Luisa Castro, Ma								Study of the mycocoenosis of macromycetes in the Parque Natural do Monte Aloia (Pontevedra, Spain)								ANALES DEL JARDIN BOTANICO DE MADRID				66				151	156		10.3989/ajbm.2228			2009	2009	We study the composition of macrofungal communities in the Natural Reserve of Monte Aloia (Tui, Pontevedra) and its relation with different biotopes in the selected area. The distribution of species in the selected mycotopes was analyzed using the Bray & Curtis similarity index. (Cluster analysis). The mean values of similarity and dissimilarity among biotopes was determined using Multidimensional non-metric Scaling (MDS) and the analysis of Porcentual Similarity (SIMPER). All biotopes were analyzed using the statistical program PRIMER (Plymouth Routines In Multivariate Ecological Research, version 6 for Windows).		[Lorenzo, Purificacion; Luisa Castro, Ma] Univ Vigo, Fac Bioloxia, Lab Micoloxia, E-36310 Vigo, Spain; [Lorenzo, Purificacion] Univ Vigo, Fac Bioloxia, Lab Micoloxia, E-36310 Vigo, Spain								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000273885100014		
J	Munhae, C. B.; Bueno, Z. A. F. N.; Morini, M. S. C.; Silva, R. R.								Composition of the Ant Fauna (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) in Public Squares in Southern Brazil								SOCIOBIOLOGY				53	2B			455	472					2009	2009	The composition of the ant fauna was examined in public squares of three municipalities that compose the hydrographic basin of the Upper Tiete River: Biritiba Mirim, Salesopolis, and Mogi das Cruzes. Richness, frequency of occurrence, similarity, and influence of seasons on the species composition were examined. The method was standardized as sampling units consisted of a set of three baits arranged in a triangle with vertices two meters apart. Sardines in oil were used as attractant. A total of 86 species was collected. Myrmicinae and Pheidole were the richest subfamily and genus, respectively. Eighty species were collected in Mogi das Cruzes, 49 in Salesopolis, and 45 in Biritiba Mirim, with 34 species common to the three areas. The ordination analysis (NMDS) revealed the presence of two distinct communities: one in Mogi das Cruzes and another in Biritiba Mirim-Salesopolis. These data were supported by the dendogram based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. This result might be associated with the distinct geographic and demographic characteristics of the areas. Regarding seasonality, the composition of the fauna of Mogi das Cruzes is independent of the season of the year, unlike the observed in Biritiba Mirim and Salesopolis.		[Munhae, C. B.; Bueno, Z. A. F. N.; Morini, M. S. C.] Univ Mogi das Cruzes, NCA, Lab Mirmecol, Av Dr Candido Xavier de Almeida e Souza 200, BR-08780911 Mogi das Cruzes, SP, Brazil; [Silva, R. R.] Univ Sao Paulo, Museu Zool, BR-04263000 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Munhae, C. B.] Univ Mogi das Cruzes, NCA, Lab Mirmecol, Av Dr Candido Xavier de Almeida e Souza 200, BR-08780911 Mogi das Cruzes, SP, Brazil								7							Entomology	WOS:000270860700007		
J	Drouin, Annick; Sirois, Pascal; Archambault, Philippe								Discriminating zooplankton communities in lakes with brook trout (<i>Salvelinus fontinalis</i>) and in fishless lakes								ECOSCIENCE				16	3			271	281		10.2980/16-3-3152			2009	2009	Natural geographic barriers and escarpments inhibited the post-glacial colonization of many lakes by fish on the eastern Canadian Boreal Shield. Hence, fishless lakes containing freshwater communities that evolved without fish predation are commonly found on the Boreal Shield next to fish-present lakes. The aim of this study was thus to assess how different top-down control from fish or invertebrate predation structure zooplankton communities in eastern Canadian Boreal Shield lakes throughout the ice-free season. We examined zooplankton community characteristics using univariate indices such as abundance, richness (S), evenness (J'), diversity (H'), and multivariate species assemblages (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity) in 5 lakes with a single fish population, brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, and in 5 naturally fishless lakes throughout the ice-free season. The total abundance of zooplanktonic organisms was significantly higher in fishless lakes over the whole sampling period; this was related to the presence of small herbivorous species such as rotifers. Species assemblages of zooplankton were also significantly different between the 2 types of lakes throughout the season, principally due to the high abundance of rotifers and the scarcity of immature and mature daphnids in fishless lakes. Our results suggest that the low intensity of selective predation by brook trout on large herbivores and the heavy predation by Chaoborus americanus larvae on daphnids in fishless lakes appear to be the key factors for structuring the zooplankton community. Multivariate indicators identified patterns that were not revealed with the usual univariate indices, showing the importance of selecting appropriate indicators for the assessment of community structure.		[Drouin, Annick; Sirois, Pascal] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi, Dept Sci Fondamentales, Lab Sci Aquat, Chicoutimi, PQ G7H 2B1, Canada; [Archambault, Philippe] Univ Quebec, Inst Sci Mer, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada; [Sirois, Pascal] Univ Quebec Chicoutimi, Dept Sci Fondamentales, Lab Sci Aquat, 555 Blvd Univ, Chicoutimi, PQ G7H 2B1, Canada								11							Ecology	WOS:000270372000001		
J	Santos, Evanira M. R.; Franklin, Elizabeth; Magnusson, William E.								Cost-efficiency of Subsampling Protocols to Evaluate Oribatid-Mite Communities in an Amazonian Savanna								BIOTROPICA				40	6			728	735		10.1111/j.1744-7429.2008.00425.x			NOV 2008	2008	Sampling oribatid mites in large areas using conventional methods is expensive, time-consuming, and this constrains their use in environmental monitoring programs. We used samples collected in 38 plots of 3.75 ha spread over 30,000 ha in an Amazonian savanna to evaluate the reduction in costs and person-hours in sampling and sorting and to elaborate cost-effective protocols. Ten samples per plot were collected and extracted using a Berlese-Tullgren apparatus. In the laboratory, samples were reduced to 50, 25, 12.5, and 6.25 percent of the initial content. Field-effort reduction was estimated by reducing the number of subsamples per plot. Dissimilarity matrices were generated using Bray-Curtis, Sorensen, and Chao-Sorensen indices. Correlations between each reduced-effort dissimilarity matrix and 100 or 50 percent sorting were used as an index of how much information was retained in reduced-effort sampling, and could still be used in multivariate analyses. The effects of most predictor variables on mite composition were detected in data based on every level of sample reduction. The intensive sampling was insufficient to reveal the full oribatid-mite fauna in the savanna; as more plots were sampled, more species were recorded. Our data indicate subsampling protocols for biodiversity assessment of oribatid mites in savanna that increase field and laboratory efficiency, and optimize both taxonomic and ecological aspects of the investigation.		[Santos, Evanira M. R.; Franklin, Elizabeth; Magnusson, William E.] INPA, BR-69011970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Franklin, Elizabeth] INPA, CP 478, BR-69011970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								20							Ecology	WOS:000260132700011		
J	Meador, Michael R.; Carlisle, Daren M.; Coles, James F.								Use of tolerance values to diagnose water-quality stressors to aquatic biota in New England streams								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				8	5			718	728		10.1016/j.ecolind.2008.01.002			SEP 2008	2008	Identification of stressors related to biological impairment is critical to biological assessments. We applied nationally derived tolerance indicator values for four water-quality variables to fish and benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages at 29 sites along an urban gradient in New England. Tolerance indicator values (TIVs), as biologically based predictors of water-quality variables, were determined for dissolved oxygen, nitrite plus nitrate (nitrate), total phosphorus, and water temperature for each site based on observed biological assemblages (TIVo), and for expected assemblages (TIVE). The quotient method, based on a ratio of the TIVs for observed and expected assemblages (tolerance units), was used to diagnose potential water-quality stressors. In addition, the ratio of measured water-quality values to water-quality criteria (water-quality units) was calculated for each water-quality variable to assess measured water-quality stressors. Results from a RIVPACS predictive model for benthic macroinvertebrates and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity for fish were used to classify sites into categories of good or impaired ecological condition. Significant differences were detected between good and impaired sites for all biological tolerance units (fish and benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages averaged) except for nitrate (P = 0.480), and for all water-quality units except for nitrate (P = 0.183). Diagnosis of water-quality stressors at selected sites was, in general, consistent with State-reported causes of impairment. Tolerance units for benthic macroinvertebrate and fish assemblages were significantly correlated for water temperature (P = 0.001, r = 0.63), dissolved oxygen (P = 0.001, r = 0.61), and total phosphorus (P = 0.001, r = 0.61), but not for nitrate (P = 0.059, r = -0.35). Differences between the two assemblages in site-specific diagnosis of water-quality stressors may be the result of differences in nitrate tolerance. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Meador, Michael R.; Carlisle, Daren M.] US Geol Survey, Reston, VA 20192 USA; [Coles, James F.] US Geol Survey, Pembroke, NH 03275 USA; [Meador, Michael R.] US Geol Survey, 12201 Sunrise Valley Dr,MS 413, Reston, VA 20192 USA								17							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000255625200030		
J	Hernandez, Ivet; Aguilar, Consuelo; Sanson, Gaspar Gonzalez								Trophic webs of reef fishes at Cuba's NW area. II. Functional groups								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				56	3			1391	1401					SEP 2008	2008	A conceptual model of the food webs, mainly with fish, was built in a rocky shore of Havana City with data covering from October 2004 to February 2006. The stomach contents of the most abundant fish was complemented with the literature. We used the Relative Importance Index method to describe diets of carnivorous and omnivorous fish; and a modification of the Relative Abundance method for sponge eaters and herbivorous fish. Agglomerative numeric classification techniques were used to determine the diet's similarity. The matrix was made using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Ten functional trophic groups were formed on the basis of diet similarity. The cascade effect is evidenced in this area by the big top predator shortage and the dominance of a few low trophic level species. The regulator role of top predators is low because of over-fishing: the trophic web of this area is highly altered. Rev. Biol. Trop. 56 (3): 1391-1401. Epub 2008 September 30.		[Hernandez, Ivet; Aguilar, Consuelo; Sanson, Gaspar Gonzalez] Univ La Habana, Ctr Invest Marinas, Miramar, Cuba; [Hernandez, Ivet] Univ La Habana, Ctr Invest Marinas, Calle 16 E 1Ra & 3Ra 114,Ciudad La Habana, Miramar, Cuba								2							Biology	WOS:000265268000032		
J	Peguero-Icaza, M.; Sanchez-Velasco, L.; Lavin, M. F.; Marinone, S. G.								Larval fish assemblages, environment and circulation in a semienclosed sea (Gulf of California, Mexico)								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				79	2			277	288		10.1016/j.ecss.2008.04.008			AUG 20 2008	2008	Fish larvae and hydrographic data collected in the Gulf of California (GC) in December 2002 are used to describe larval fish assemblages (LFAs) and to explore their relationships with environmental variables (temperature, salinity, dissolved oxygen, fluorescence maximum, phi and superficial chlorophyll a). The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index defined three LFAs, distributed in areas with distinctly different environmental conditions. The affinity of most of the species with the environmental characteristics of their areas of distribution could be interpreted as an indication that spawning occurred inside those areas. Particle tracking in current fields from a 3D numerical model and connectivity matrices are used to assess larval retention in the LFA areas. The technique is well suited for seas like the GC that have well-defined circulation patterns. On time scales around 30 days, retention (from 56% to 73% of the particles) occurred (1) for the North LFA in the Upper GC, (2) for the Channel-Center LFA in the anticyclone over the Northern CC and in Ballenas Channel, and (3) for the South LFA in the eddy over San Pedro Martir basin and in the shallow zone off the peninsula. Therefore, the Lagrangian analysis revealed that the observed LFAs have a permanency long enough to allow fish larvae to remain in a favorable environment until they develop motility. The main particle export path (less than 26% of the particles) was from the North to the South LFA, following the anticyclonic main flow and coinciding with the gradient in species number and larval abundance. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Peguero-Icaza, M.; Sanchez-Velasco, L.] CICIMAR IPN, Dept Plancton & Ecol Marina, La Paz 23090, BCS, Mexico; [Peguero-Icaza, M.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, ICMyL, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Lavin, M. F.; Marinone, S. G.] CICESE, Dept Oceanog Fis, Ensenada 22830, Baja California, Mexico; [Peguero-Icaza, M.] CICIMAR IPN, Dept Plancton & Ecol Marina, Av Inst Politecn Nacl S-N, La Paz 23090, BCS, Mexico								20							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000259059000008		
J	Van Sickle, John								An index of compositional dissimilarity between observed and expected assemblages								JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY				27	2			227	235		10.1899/07-111.1			JUN 2008	2008	The reference-condition approach to bioassessment often uses the observed / expected (O/E) ratio to indicate anthropogenic alteration of aquatic macroinvertebrates, fish, or periphyton assemblages. Given a list of taxa found at >= 1 minimally disturbed reference sites, E is the number of those taxa that would expected in a sampled assemblage if the sampled stream were in reference condition, and O is the number of those taxa observed in the sample. An O/E value significantly <1.0 indicates that a stream has lost taxa relative to its reference-condition expectation, possibly because of anthropogenic stress. However, the O/E index can be insensitive to stress-induced shifts in taxonomic composition that leave assemblage richness unchanged. As an alternative to O/E, I propose using BC, an adaptation of Bray-Curtis distance, to measure the compositional dissimilarity between an observed and expected assemblage directly. I compared the performance of BC and O/E at 5685 stream and lake sites throughout the contiguous 48 states of the US using 1 of 10 River Invertebrate Prediction and Classification system (RIVPACS)-type models to predict expected assemblages. Percentages of independently determined nonreference sites that were declared to be nonreference by BC exceeded the percentage declared to be nonreference by O/E by an average of 6 to 16 percentage points, depending on whether the 2 indices included low-probability taxa, whether a 1-sided or 2-sided O/E criterion was used to declare nonreference, and whether predictive or null models were used to predict expected assemblages. Correlations between BC scores and anthropogenic stressor variables were stronger than correlations between O/E scores and anthropogenic stressor variables in 18 of 25 cases. In contrast to O/E, BC can include low-probability taxa without reducing its power to detect nonreference conditions.		US EPA, Natl Hlth & Environm Effects Res Lab, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA; [Van Sickle, John] US EPA, Natl Hlth & Environm Effects Res Lab, 200 SW 35th St, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA								27							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000256178200001		
J	Zilli, Florencia Lucila; Montalto, Luciana; Marchese, Mercedes Rosa								Benthic invertebrate assemblages and functional feeding groups in the Parana River floodplain (Argentina)								LIMNOLOGICA				38	2			159	171		10.1016/j.limno.2008.01.001			MAY 2008	2008	The benthic invertebrate assemblages and functional feeding groups in different mesohabitats of the Middle Parana River-floodplain system were analyzed. Benthic invertebrates and bottom sediments were sampled in a secondary channel (center and bank mesohabitats), a temporal marginal fluvial wetland adjacent to the river, an isolated lake and a connected lake during low water level. Cluster analysis of average invertebrate densities based on the Bray Curtis dissimilarity index yielded a group composed by the mesohabitats with higher species richness, the floodplain lakes, banks mesohabitats and the wetland. The center mesohabitat of the main channel characterized by sandy sediments with low organic matter content and the lowest invertebrate densities and species richness was classified separately. Alpha diversity increased from the center mesohabitat (6 taxa) to the adjacent wetland (71 taxa), and were similar between the floodplain lakes (24 and 22 taxa) and the river bank mesohabitat (24 taxa). Gamma and beta diversities (Whittaker index) were 92 and 2.19, respectively. The highest turnover of taxa was between the river and the other mesohabitats and the lowest between floodplain lakes. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) showed a clear separation of wetland and banks from other mesohabitats (axis I and 2 explained 52.25% variance) explained by shredders and collector-filterers. The other mesohabitats were arranged in a gradient from the main channel mostly related to collector-gatherers to the connected lake and the isolated lake that were mostly characterized by predators and scrapers. The invertebrate assemblage complexity and functional feeding groups composition increased in the lateral dimension, from the center of the main channel to the temporal marginal fluvial wetland due to the influences of the spatial heterogeneity caused by different sources of organic matter inputs. (C) 2008 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, Inst Nacl Limnol, RA-3016 Santo Tome, Santa Fe, Argentina; Univ Nacl Litoral, RA-3016 Santo Tome, Santa Fe, Argentina; [Zilli, Florencia Lucila] Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn, Inst Nacl Limnol, Jose Macia 1933, RA-3016 Santo Tome, Santa Fe, Argentina								39							Limnology	WOS:000256407600007		
J	Somerfield, Paul J.								Identification of the Bray-Curtis similarity index: Comment on Yoshioka (2008)								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				372				303	306		10.3354/meps07841			2008	2008	In a recent As I See It, Yoshioka (2008, Mar Ecol Prog Ser 368:309-310) stated that the term Bray-Curtis should only be used for doubly-standardised data, and when data counts are used to calculate similarity, the term Czekanowski is correct; by using the wrong name, it is claimed, marine ecologists demonstrate a lack of knowledge and introduce confusion. This needs to be rectified. It is incorrect: (1) to confuse pretreatment of data with calculation of similarity (although both are part of a process, few ecologists Would accept that it is logical for the name of a coefficient to alter depending on the data used to calculate it); (2) that the name for the coefficient calculated from counts is Czekanowski; (3) that terrestrial ecologists reserve the name Bray-Curtis for doubly-standardised data; (4) to assume that alternative names for coefficients cause confusion when it is clear which coefficient is used; (5) that this is a problem with software, or the way software is used. Yoshioka (2008) is right that pretreatments alter the rank order of similarities between samples, but this is not a novel observation, and it. is why ecologists who know what they are doing use different pre-treatments. What ecologists mean by Bray-Curtis is well understood, and they do not mean Czekanowski's coefficient as originally described, although some textbooks confuse the 2 indices. We should maintain use of the term Bray-Curtis in community ecology.		Plymouth Marine Lab, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England; [Somerfield, Paul J.] Plymouth Marine Lab, Prospect Pl,W Hoe, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England								54							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000262418100028		
J	Sanvicente-Anorve, Laura; Alba, Claudia; Alatorre, Miguel A.; Flores-Coto, Cesar								Cross-shelf and vertical distribution of siphonophore assemblages under the influence of freshwater outflows in the southern Gulf of Mexico								HYDROBIOLOGIA				586				69	78		10.1007/s10750-006-0492-6			JUL 2007	2007	Siphonophores are exclusively marine cnidaria and their predatory role in plankton food-webs is well recognised. In this study, we analyse the structure and the spatial extent of siphonophore assemblages in relation to changes in freshwater outflows and food availability in the southern Gulf of Mexico during a high (October) and a low (April) outflow periods. A total of 149 samples were collected using a 505 mu m multiple closing net at 1-6 levels (0-100 m) of the water column, depending on the bathymetry. Data on siphonophore species biovolumes (ml 100 m(-3)) were treated by means of the Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index, and two distinctive assemblages were identified: the 'inner' and the 'outer' assemblages, located over the inner and outer shelves. Temperature, salinity, zooplankton biomass, and siphonophore species were included in a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to identify the factors associated with each assemblage. Geographical distribution of the assemblages practically remained the same during both seasons and its cross-shelf variability was stronger than the vertical one. Seasonally, diversity values were higher in October, when the highest river discharges occur. Spatially, the lowest diversity and mean siphonophore biovolumes values were registered in the 'inner assemblage', where the highest and lowest salinity values were recorded. We suggest that even when extreme salinity values (> 36.5 or < 34) might depress siphonophore populations in the coastal area, enough food availability in the concerned areas might mitigate the negative effect of salinity, since a positive and significant (p < 0.05) relationship was found between siphonophores biovolume and zooplankton biomass. Bassia bassensis, Diphyes dispar and Enneanogum hyalinum, present in both assemblages during both seasons, were able to survive in a wide range of salinity values, following perhaps, their prey. All the 23 species here registered were found in the 'outer assemblage'; however, Abylopsis eschscholtzi, Chelophyes appendiculata and Diphyes bojani were more associated with the 'outer' group according to the PCA results. Enneagonum hyalinum was the only species frequently encountered and abundant in the 'inner assemblage' during both seasons and, supporting previous observations, this species might be considered as an indicator of nearshore waters.		Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Sanvicente-Anorve, Laura] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								19							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000246612800006		
J	Gollner, Sabine; Zekely, Julia; Govenar, Breea; Le Bris, Nadine; Nemeschkal, Hans L.; Fisher, Charles R.; Bright, Monika								Tubeworm-associated permanent meiobenthic communities from two chemically different hydrothermal vent sites on the East Pacific Rise								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				337				39	49		10.3354/meps337039			2007	2007	The permanent meiobenthic community associated with aggregations of the tubeworm Riftia pachyptila was characterized at 2 different hydrothermal vent sites, Tica and Riftia Field, on the East Pacific Rise near 9 degrees 50'N. The maximum effluent temperatures were similar at both sites, but the chemistry of the hydrothermal fluids differed between sites. The abundance of meiobenthos was very low in 5 out of 6 samples (<61 ind. 10 cm(-2)) and was higher at Tica (20 to 976 ind. 10 cm(-2)) than at Riftia Field (< 1 to 12 ind. 10 cm(-2)). Meiobenthos abundance was positively correlated with the volume of sediment within the tubeworm aggregations. Sediment consisted mainly of particulate organic material and contained only a few mineral grains. A total of 33 meiobenthic species (15 of them new to science) was identified, comprising nematodes, copepods, ostracods, tanaidaceans, and foraminiferans. The meiobenthic fauna contributed a third to the total species richness in the benthic community associated with these tubeworm aggregations. There were 19 meiobenthic species shared between the 2 sites. The majority of meiobenthic species were first-order primary consumers. The most abundant taxa were nematodes and copepods, and other taxa were rare at both sites. Nematodes numerically dominated the community at Tica, while no clear dominance of a higher taxon could be detected at Riftia Field. Species richness was similar at both sites, whereas Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index were higher at Riftia Field. Due to the differences in the relative abundance of some species and unique occurrence of others at each site, the meiobenthic communities from the 2 different sites had an average Bray-Curtis dissimilarity of almost 70%.		Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Penn State Univ, Dept Biol, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; IFREMER, Ctr Brest, Dept Environm Profond, F-29280 Plouzane, France; Univ Vienna, Dept Theoret Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Woods Hole Oceanog Inst, Dept Biol, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA; [Gollner, Sabine] Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, Althanstrasse 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria								37							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000247105100004		
J	Cusson, Mathieu; Archambault, Philippe; Aitken, Alec								Biodiversity of benthic assemblages on the Arctic continental shelf: historical data from Canada								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				331				291	304		10.3354/meps331291			2007	2007	This study describes patterns of abundance, diversity, and assemblages of benthic macrofauna within the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. A review of data reports and the published literature yielded 219 stations and 947 taxa from 7 sources in various regions of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago (i.e. Beaufort Sea and Mackenzie Shelf, Victoria Island, Hudson and James Bays, Frobisher Bay, Ungava Bay, and Southern Davis Strait). In general, we observed that eastern regions of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago showed greater values of species richness (or a diversity) than the western and central regions, whereas no specific patterns were observed for Shannon-Wiener's diversity (H') and Pielou's evenness (J') indices. The Beaufort Sea and Mackenzie Shelf region exhibited high values of taxonomic distinctness (Delta(+)), whereas Hudson Bay showed low values. However, the Hudson Bay region showed high values of turnover (beta(W)) diversity. A non-metric multi-dimensional scaling plot of similarity (Bray-Curtis index) and analysis of similarity revealed that species composition differed among regions, even those located in close proximity to one another. These investigations were conducted at different levels of taxonomic resolution (Species, Order, Class and Phyla) and the results demonstrated that most patterns were maintained up to the Order and Class level. A relatively small number of taxa, mainly annelids, were responsible for most of the dissimilarity among regions. Bottom salinity and temperature were the most important environmental variables (among depth of site, bottom temperature, salinity, physical and chemical sediment characteristics) for determining these assemblage patterns. Multiple regression analyses also demonstrated that variance in species richness and diversity (H') was best explained by variance in salinity (55 and 43% respectively). The analysis of a time series from Frobisher Bay revealed that the temporal (mo/yr-scale) variability of assemblages was of the same order as the spatial (km-scale) variability among sites.		Inst Maurice Lamontagne, Mont Joli, PQ G5H 3Z4, Canada; Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Geog, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A5, Canada; [Archambault, Philippe] Univ Quebec, ISMER, 310 Allee Ursulines, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada								49							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000244872400024		
J	Nishikawa, Jun; Matsuura, Hiroyuki; Castillo, Lourdes V.; Campos, Wilfredo L.; Nishida, Shuhei								Biomass, vertical distribution and community structure of mesozooplankton in the Sulu Sea and its adjacent waters								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				54	1-2			114	130		10.1016/j.dsr2.2006.09.005			2007	2007	The Sulu Sea is a semi-isolated basin in which of the mesopelagic layer and below (> ca. 600 m) are homogeneous with high temperature (ca. 10 degrees C). The biomass, abundance, vertical distribution, and community structure of mesozooplankton in the upper 1000 in in the Sulu Sea and its adjacent Celebes and South China seas were investigated in February 2000 and November-December 2002. The total mesozooplankton biomass in the 0-1000 m water column was higher in the Sulu (19.6 g m(-2)) and the Celebes seas (19.7 g m(-2)) than in the South China Sea (15.0 m(-2)). The total biomass in the mesopelagic layer (400-1000 m) was fairly constant in these seas, ranging 4.48-4.99 g m(-2), and did not show significant variation. Likewise, there was no significant deviation from an exponential decrease in biomass and abundance with depth. The vertical distribution patterns of higher taxonomic groups also did not show specific patterns in the Sulu Sea compared to the other areas. Cluster analysis based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices applied to higher mesozooplankton taxa indicates several distinct communities between different depth layers, rather than between stations or sea areas. These results suggest that warm and homogeneous mesopelagic water in the Sulu Sea does not drastically influence the total mesozooplankton standing stocks, vertical distribution patterns, and the community structure at the higher taxonomic levels compared with those in its adjacent seas. However, the composition of copepods from the 2000 cruise indicates marked differences in the composition of calanoid families between the Sulu and Celebes seas, with dominance of Eucalanidae, Metridinidae, and Lucicutiidae in the layer of lower dissolved oxygen in the Sulu Sea, suggesting difference in community structure at lower taxonomic levels (genera and/or species) between these areas. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Univ Tokyo, Ocean Res Inst, Nakano Ku, Tokyo 1648639, Japan; Univ Philippines, Inst Biol Sci, Coll, Laguna 4031, Philippines; Univ Philippines, Coll Arts & Sci, Illoilo 5023, Philippines; [Nishikawa, Jun] Univ Tokyo, Ocean Res Inst, Nakano Ku, 1-15-1 Minamidai, Tokyo 1648639, Japan								12							Oceanography	WOS:000245112400009		
J	Costa, Paulo A. S.; Braga, Adriana C.; Melo, Marcelo R. S.; Nunan, Gustavo W.; Martins, Agnaldo Silva; Olavo, George								Assemblages of demersal bony fishes on the slope of the eastern Brazilian coast.								Serie Livros do Museu Nacional				24				87	107					2007	2007	Assemblages of demersal bony fishes on the slope of the eastern Brazilian coast. Demersal and benthopelagic teleost fishes from central (eastern) Brazilian coast were sampled between 195-2.137 m. The material examined was obtained during a deep exploratory-fishing cruise along the coasts of Bahia, Espirito Santo and north of Rio de Janeiro state (from 11 to 22 degrees S), aboard the R/V Thalassa (IFREMER) from May to July, 2000. Samples were taken using an otter trawl with 47.2 m in the headrope and 26.8 m in the footrope, adapted with 0.53 m diameter rubber bobbins (rockhoppers). A total of 45,368 teleosts, distributed in 208 species, 61 families and 15 orders were caught in 58 trawls. Families with highest diversity of species were: Macrouridae (22), Alepocephalidae (17), Ophidiidae (17), Synaphobranchidae (9), Gempylidae (9) and Ipnopidae (8). A high number of families were represented by one (12.3 %) or two species (7.4 %). New records for southwestern Atlantic comprised 39% of the identified taxa, including 2 orders (Cetomimiformes and Ateleopodiformes), 3 families (Ateleopodidae, Barbourisiidae and Steindachneriidae) and 82 species. Numerical densities and the number of species decreased towards the slope deeper regions, altough diversity and rarefaction index were higher between 900 and 1400 m. Numerical abundance was standardized (N degrees/h) and the data processed by cluster analysis MDS ordination of samples, using the quantitative Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. The analysis of the numerical data indicated the presence of different assemblages of species represented over the slope depths along the studied area. Significant variations of means and ranges were observed between depth, latitude, temperature and between the diversity (H') and rarefaction (ES) index of assemblages. In general, most species found on the Brazilian slope are widely distributed in the tropical and subtropical Western Atlantic, with considerable low levels of endemism. High level of specific similarity was found with the Gulf of Mexico (44%) and Guianas (39%) fish fauna, suggesting that those communities probably present a long and extense filogeographic conection, following the distribution of the Caribbean fish fauna in the Southwestern Atlantic.		[Costa, Paulo A. S.; Braga, Adriana C.] Univ Fed Estado Rio de Janeiro, UNIRIO, Lab Dinam Populacoes Marinhas, BR-22290240 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Melo, Marcelo R. S.] Auburn Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Auburn, AL 36849 USA; [Nunan, Gustavo W.] UFRJ, Museu Nacl, Dept Vertebrados, Setor Ictiol, BR-20940040 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Martins, Agnaldo Silva] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, BR-29075910 Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Olavo, George] UEFS, Lab Biol Pesqueira, BR-44031460 Feira De Santana, BA, Brazil; [Costa, Paulo A. S.] Univ Fed Estado Rio de Janeiro, UNIRIO, Lab Dinam Populacoes Marinhas, Av Pasteur 458-410, BR-22290240 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								11							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000269554700004		
J	Davis, Jenny; Horwitz, Pierre; Norris, Richard; Chessman, Bruce; McGuire, Megan; Sommer, Bea								Are river bioassessment methods using macroinvertebrates applicable to wetlands?								HYDROBIOLOGIA				572				115	128		10.1007/s10750-005-1033-4			NOV 2006	2006	A predictive model, incorporating macroinvertebrate and environmental data, similar to that developed for Australian rivers (AUSRIVAS) and British rivers (RIVPACS) was constructed using a dataset collected from 23 reference (least altered) wetlands on the Swan Coastal Plain, Western Australia, sampled in summer and spring, 1989 and spring, 1990. Four main groups of reference wetlands were identified by UPGMA classification (using the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity measure). Distinguishing environmental variables identified by Stepwise Multiple Discriminant Function Analysis were: calcium, colour (gilvin), latitude, longitude, sodium and organic carbon. Observed to expected ratios of taxa with a > 50% chance of occurrence (OE50) derived from the model for a suite of 23 test wetlands sampled in spring, 1997, were significantly correlated with pH and the depth of the sampling sites. Greater discrimination between the test wetlands was provided by the OE50 ratios than either raw richness (number of families) or a biotic index (SWAMPS). Results obtained for a subset of 11 test wetlands sampled with both a rapid bioassessment protocol (incorporating field picking of 200 invertebrates collected in 2 min sweeps from selected habitats) and a semi-quantitative protocol (incorporating laboratory picking of all invertebrates collected in sweeps along 10 m transects at randomly allocated sites) were not significantly different, indicating that the former could be used to reduce the time and costs associated with macroinvertebrate-based wetland monitoring programs. In addition to providing an objective method of assessing wetland condition, predictive modelling provides a list of taxa expected to occur under reference conditions, which can be used as a target in wetland restoration programs. The probable impediment to widespread adoption of predictive modelling for wetland bioassessment is the need to produce models tailored to specific geographic regions and specific climatic conditions. This may incur significant costs in countries, such as Australia, which span a wide range of climatic zones.		Murdoch Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia; Edith Cowan Univ, Ctr Ecosyst Management, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia; Univ Canberra, Cooperat Res Ctr Freshwater Ecol, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia; Ctr Nat Resources, Dept Land & Water Conservat, Parramatta, NSW 2124, Australia; [Davis, Jenny] Murdoch Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia								24							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000240911100008		
J	Schlick-Steiner, B. C.; Steiner, F. M.; Moder, K.; Bruckner, A.; Fiedler, K.; Christian, E.								Assessing ant assemblages: pitfall trapping versus nest counting (Hymenoptera, Formicidae)								INSECTES SOCIAUX				53	3			274	281		10.1007/s00040-006-0869-6			AUG 2006	2006	Pitfall trapping and nest counting are the most common census methods for ant assemblages. We examined the concordance between pitfall catches and nest counts on dry grassland. Spearman rank correlations and non-metric multidimensional scaling of the Bray Curtis similarity index revealed moderate concordance between the data collated by the two methods, but overall method-related differences were considerable. The dissimilarity was influenced by the type of land management, but not by trapping period or plot shape. Trapping success depended on nest density, ground vegetation cover and species-specific traits (inhabited stratum, colony size, foraging distance). Even when these factors were taken into account, the convertibility of pitfall trap and nest density values was unsatisfactory: the census method proved to be crucial in designing ant-ecological studies and interpreting literature data.		Univ Bodenkultur Wien, Inst Zool, Dept Integrat Biol & Biodivers Res, A-1180 Vienna, Austria; Univ Bodenkultur Wien, Inst Forest Entomol Forest Pathol & Forest Protec, Dept Forest & Soil Sci, A-1180 Vienna, Austria; Univ Bodenkultur Wien, Inst Math & Appl Stat, Dept Spatial Landscape & Infrastruct Sci, A-1180 Vienna, Austria; Univ Vienna, Dept Populat Ecol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Steiner, F. M.] Univ Bodenkultur Wien, Inst Zool, Dept Integrat Biol & Biodivers Res, Gregor Mendel Str 33, A-1180 Vienna, Austria								44							Entomology	WOS:000239355900005		
J	Walters, K; Coen, LD								A comparison of statistical approaches to analyzing community convergence between natural and constructed oyster reefs								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				330	1			81	95		10.1016/j.jembe.2005.12.018			MAR 7 2006	2006	Evaluating the success of habitat creation or restoration depends primarily on the selection of appropriate goals, relevant metrics and robust analytic approaches. For intertidal oyster reefs, the goal of restoring ecological function often is as important as the production of harvestable oysters, especially since oysters are the habitat. Assessing differences in resident faunal composition between created and natural reefs is one possible metric for evaluating ecological success. Yearly changes in the resident faunal composition on constructed and natural intertidal oyster reefs at one South Carolina restoration site were analyzed with a variety of statistical approaches to determine the most effective method(s) for documenting possible convergence in the similarity of reef assemblages over time. Two datasets were defined by the level of taxonomic identification, all taxa or a subset of common taxa, and the level of taxa reduction; all taxa, taxa >1% of total abundance, and taxa significantly contributing to variation. Data were analyzed using "classic" multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), null model analysis of co-occurrence (ECOSIM), nonparametric analysis of similarity (ANOSIM), and permutation tests for multivariate analysis of similarity (PERMANOVA). Taxa abundance was used to weight MANOVA and ECOSIM analyses, while the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index was used to weight ANOSIM and PERMANOVA analyses. Initial constraints on the analytic design and data manipulations resulted in only one test where convergence of the constructed and natural reef assemblages was indicated. Prescribed reductions in the suite of taxa considered did not alter appreciably the results. The analytic approaches varied in suitability and effectiveness at discriminating among changes in compositional similarity, even when initial constraints were relaxed. MANOVA results indicated either no difference or a significant difference in resident faunal composition between reefs, but were compromised by the inability to transform the data sufficiently to test for multivariate homogeneity violations even in analyses with reduced taxa numbers. Interpretation of ECOSIM results suggested fewer taxa in common even on natural reefs and were affected by a lack of design alternatives and the possible inflation of Type I error that weighting by abundance may cause. ANOSIM results identified no significant reef treatment effects and also suffered from design constraints and an inability to generate enough permutations to test for significant differences in datasets with relatively small sample sizes. All test results from PERMANOVA analyses except one indicated unambiguously that resident faunal assemblages on constructed reefs generally were not yet similar to natural reefs even after 7 years. Convergence of constructed and natural reef resident assemblages was suggested by PERMANOVA tests only for the dataset with the fewest taxa. The negligible limitations of PERMANOVA, flexible design options, and ability to generate significance tests for small sample sizes make the approach powerful. The ongoing development of effective statistical approaches for testing the significance of taxonomic compositional changes among habitats makes the determination of whether restoration projects are successful less dependent on the choice of analytic technique. More critical, biological questions including whether convergence of taxa abundance and composition is a valid indicator of similar ecological function remain to be answered. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.		Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Conway, SC 29528 USA; SCDNR, Marine Resources Res Inst, Charleston, SC 29412 USA; [Walters, K] Coastal Carolina Univ, Dept Marine Sci, POB 261954, Conway, SC 29528 USA				Benthic Ecology Meeting held in Honor of Richard M Warwick	APR 06-10, 2005		Williamsburg, VA	64							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000236058900008		
J	Clarke, KR; Somerfield, PJ; Chapman, MG								On resemblance measures for ecological studies, including taxonomic dissimilarities and a zero-adjusted Bray-Curtis coefficient for denuded assemblages								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				330	1			55	80		10.1016/j.jembe.2005.12.017			MAR 7 2006	2006	Bray-Curtis similarity is widely employed in multivariate analysis of assemblage data, for sound biological reasons. This paper discusses two problems, however, with its practical application: its behaviour is erratic (or even undefined) for the vanishingly sparse samples that may be found as an end-point to a severe impact gradient, or a start-point in colonisation studies; and, in common with all similarity measures on species-level data, it is sensitive to inconsistency of taxonomic identification through time. It is shown that the latter problem is ameliorated by application of 'taxonomic dissimilarity' coefficients, a natural extension of the concept of taxonomic distinctness indices. Two previous suggestions for use with presence/absence data, denoted here by Gamma(+) and Theta(+), are noted to be simple generalisations of the Bray-Curtis and Kulczynski measures, respectively. Also seen is their ability to pen-nit ordinations of assemblages from wide geographic scales, with no species in common, and for which Bray-Curtis would return zero similarity for all pairs of samples. The primary problem addressed, however, is that of denuded or entirely blank samples. Where it can be convincingly argued that impoverished samples are near-blank from the same cause, rather than by random occurrences from inadequate sample sizes (tow length, core diameter, transect or quadrat size etc.), a simple adjustment to the form of the Bray-Curtis coefficient can generate meaningful MDS displays which would otherwise collapse, and can improve values of the ANOSIM R statistic (increased separation of groups in multivariate space). It is also shown to have no effect at all on the normal functioning of a Bray-Curtis analysis when at least a modest amount of data is present for all samples. Examination of the properties of this 'zero-adjusted' Bray-Curtis measure goes hand-in-hand with a wider discussion of the efficacy of competing similarity, distance or dissimilarity coefficients (collectively: resemblance measures) in community ecology. The inherent biological guidelines underlying the 'Bray-Curtis family' of measures (including Kulczynski, Sorenson, Ochiai and Canberra dissimilarity) are made explicit. These and other commonly employed measures (e.g. Euclidean, Manhattan, Gower and chi-squared distances) are calculated for several 'classic' data sets of impact events or gradients in space and time. Behaviour of particular coefficients is judged against the interpretability of the resulting ordination plots and an objective measure of the ability to discriminate between a priori defined hypotheses, representing impact conditions. A second-stage MDS plot of a set of resemblance coefficients, based on the respective similarities of the multivariate patterns each generates (an MDS of MDS plots, in effect), is seen to be useful in determining which coefficients are extracting essentially different information from the same assemblage matrix. This suggests a mechanism for practical classification of the plethora of resemblance measures defined in the literature. Similarity-based ANOSIM R statistics and Spearman rho correlations, whose non-parametric structure make them absolutely comparable across different resemblance measures, answer questions about whether the different information extracted by some coefficients is more, or less, helpful to the final biological interpretation. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.		Plymouth Marine Lab, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England; Univ Sydney, Marine Ecol Labs A11, Ctr Res Ecol Impacts Coastal Cities, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Clarke, KR] Plymouth Marine Lab, Prospect Pl,W Hoe, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England				Benthic Ecology Meeting held in Honor of Richard M Warwick	APR 06-10, 2005		Williamsburg, VA	834							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000236058900007		
J	Cetinic, I; Vilicic, D; Buric, Z; Olujic, G								Phytoplankton seasonality in a highly stratified karstic estuary (Krka, Adriatic Sea)								HYDROBIOLOGIA				555				31	40		10.1007/s10750-005-1103-7			FEB 2006	2006	The abundance of phytoplankton and the composition of nutrients were analysed at three stations in the highly stratified karstic Krka Estuary (east Adriatic coast), in the period March 2000-February 2001. The phytoplankton assemblages were analysed by cluster analysis (average linkage), applied to the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index computed on density data. Seven groups were identified, which can be combined into two major groups. The spring period was influenced by high riverine water inflow and characterised by the development of cocolithophorids and autotrophic nanoplankton, and small diatoms in winter. In the summer-autumn period domination of one large group occurred, comprising dinoflagellates (micro and nano) and colonial diatoms. Three small groups were also present in that period, each with a specific phytoplankton composition. Variance explained by the Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) of the time-position data was low but corresponded with clustering of samples. CC analysis revealed temperature and salinity as the most important indicators of riverine water impact that influenced species composition and phytoplankton seasonality. The nutrient regime was highly influenced by river/seawater exchange, except in the case of orthophosphates, which showed no correlation with salinity.		Univ Zagreb, Fac Sci, Div Biol, Zagreb 41000, Croatia; Hydrog Inst Republ Croatia, Split, Croatia; [Cetinic, I] Univ Zagreb, Fac Sci, Div Biol, Rooseveltov Trg 6,POB 333, Zagreb 41000, Croatia				38th European Marine Biology Symposium	SEP 08-12, 2003	Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol; Fund LusoAmer Desenvolviment; Fund Calouste Gulbenk; Fund Cienc Tecnol	Univ Aveiro, Aveiro, PORTUGAL	70							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000234198500004		
J	Clarke, K. R.; Chapman, M. G.; Somerfield, P. J.; Needham, H. R.								Dispersion-based weighting of species counts in assemblage analyses								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				320				11	27		10.3354/meps320011			2006	2006	Multivariate analysis of species assemblage data often begins with transformation of abundances, to downweight contributions from dominant taxa to Bray-Curtis dissimilarities computed among samples. Although usually effective, global transformation is a blunt tool: it ignores differences in the variance structure of counts of individual species. Species which are highly spatially clustered should logically be given less weight than those with similar mean abundance but whose replicate counts have the lower variance associated with Poisson distributions (for which individual organisms arrive randomly and independently into the sample). Where replicates are available within sample groups specified a priori, this differential downweighting is achieved by dividing the counts for each species by their index of dispersion D, the variance to mean ratio, a clustering ('clurnping') measure calculated from replicates within a group, and then averaged across groups. The procedure is justified by assuming a generalised Poisson model for counts, allowing different species to have arbitrarily differing degrees of clustering. Downweighting is applied only where a species shows significant evidence of clumping, this being tested by a powerful, exact permutation test that replaces the standard (large-sample) chi(2) test for D = 1, which is often invalid because of low 'expected' frequencies. The resulting dispersion-weighted data matrix has a common (Poisson-like) variance structure across species, but unchanged relative responses of a species in different groups. Transformation may still be needed but now only to downweight consistently abundant species relative to equally consistent but less numerous species, rather than also dealing with erratic counts. Dispersion weighting is shown to be effective in 3 studies that examine: soft-sediment copepods in the metal-polluted Fal estuary, UK; benthic macrofauna of mangrove forests in Bicentennial Park, New South Wales, Australia; and sediment nematodes within and outside seagrass beds in the Yealm estuary, UK. A fourth data set, on macrobenthos from Loch Creran, UK, is added to a comparison of the differing cross-species distributions of the dispersion index.		Plymouth Marine Lab, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England; Univ Sydney, Ctr Res Ecol Impacts Coastal Cities, Marine Ecol Labs A11, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Clarke, K. R.] Plymouth Marine Lab, Prospect Pl, Plymouth PL1 3DH, Devon, England								151							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000241102800002		
J	Smith, RG; Gross, KL								Weed community and corn yield variability in diverse management systems								WEED SCIENCE				54	1			106	113		10.1614/WS-05-108R.1			JAN-FEB 2006	2006	The effects of crop rotation and management system on annual variability in weed communities and crop yields were assessed in a 4-yr study in Michigan. Variability of the weed community and corn yields were assessed using the coefficient of variation (CV) and a multivariate dissimilarity index (Bray-Curtis) that accounted for changes in both weed species abundance and composition. The treatments included two rotations: continuous corn and a corn-corn-soybean-wheat rotation, and two management systems: conventional (CONV) and organic-based (ORG). Weed biomass was significantly higher in the ORG system; however, there was no effect of crop rotation on weed biomass or number of weed species in a treatment (species richness). Annual variability in weed community composition and structure was affected by both crop rotation and management system and was highest in the ORG rotation. In contrast to the weed community, variability in corn yield was highest in the least-diverse cropping system (CONV monoculture), despite that system having a more constant weed community. Corn yield in the ORG rotation was not significantly different from that in the CONV monoculture. Results of this study suggest that management aimed at increasing cropping system diversity may have additional effects on weed communities and crop yields beyond those commonly reported, and these may have important implications for the development of more efficient and sustainable weed and crop management practices.		Montana State Univ, Dept Land Resources & Environm Sci, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA; Michigan State Univ, WM Kellogg Biol Stn, Hickory Corners, MI 49060 USA; Michigan State Univ, Dept Plant Biol, Hickory Corners, MI 49060 USA; [Smith, RG] Montana State Univ, Dept Land Resources & Environm Sci, 720 Leon Johnson Hall, Bozeman, MT 59717 USA								34							Agronomy; Plant Sciences	WOS:000234766900014		
J	Yu, XD; Luo, TH; Zhou, HZ								<i>Carabus</i> (Coleoptera: Carabidae) assemblages of native forests and non-native plantations in Northern China								ENTOMOLOGICA FENNICA				15	3			129	137					SEP 17 2004	2004	The effects of non-native plantation established after clear-cutting were studied in Dongling Mountain region, Northern China. Pitfall catches of Carabus beetles from a non-native larch plantation were compared with those from two native forests, an oak forest and a mixed broad-leaved forest. More individuals were captured from the mixed broad-leaved forest and the larch plantation than from the oak forest. For the three most abundant species in this area, C. crassesculptus peaked in abundance in the mixed broad-leaved forest; C. manifestus peaked in the larch plantation, and C. sculptipennis in the oak forest. Measured by PcoA using Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity, species composition of the larch plantation was different from the two native forests, but overlapped remarkably with them. All the three abundant species showed a similar positive relationship between local distribution and abundance. Captures of abundant species were clumped within the forest, but the extent of aggregation among forests was different. Monthly catches of total Carabus, and C. crassesculptus alone, peaked in June-August in all the three forests, but C. manifestus peaked in June and again in August. Our results suggest that the planting of non-native larch does not have a detrimental effect on Carabus assemblages in general, but it changes the spatial distribution and abundance compared to the native forests.		Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Beijing 100080, Peoples R China; [Zhou, HZ] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Beijing 100080, Peoples R China								13							Entomology	WOS:000224200900001		
J	Baron, RM; Jordan, LKB; Spieler, RE								Characterization of the marine fish assemblage associated with the nearshore hardbottom of Broward County, Florida, USA								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				60	3			431	443		10.1016/j.ecss.2004.02.002			JUL 2004	2004	Some shallow (<7 m, water depth) nearshore hardbottom areas of southeast Florida have been reported to function as important juvenile fish habitat. Much of this area has been impacted by one or more local beach renourishments (sand fill to offset erosion). We characterized the nearshore fish communities and compared the fish assemblages adjacent to renourished beach to those adjacent to never-renourished beach along a 30-km stretch of coastline, primarily in Broward County, using three visual census methods. Two hundred transect-counts, 100 point-counts and 98 rover-diver counts were completed during June-August 2001. In transect- and point-counts, abundance of all fish species and their sizes were recorded; the rover-diver counts consisted of a simple species list. In total, 164 species and over 72,000 fish were recorded. The highest number of species (145) was recorded with the rover-diver counts. The transects-counts had 118 species and 109 species were recorded on the point-counts. With either all the sites adjacent to renourished beach pooled and compared to the pooled never-renourished sites or individual comparisons amongst renourished and neighboring never-renourished sites, no consistent differences were noted in fish abundance or species richness (ANOVA) or among fish assemblage structure (MDS plot of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices). However, although the data show no obvious distinct difference between the renourished and never-renourished sites, due to several important confounding factors (e.g., census methodology, longshore movement of sand fill) and the absence of baseline data prior to any renourishment, it would be premature to translate these results into management strategies. The assemblage structure, in terms of percentage of juvenile fish (<5 cm) as well as percent contributions by family, was similar for the point-counts and transect-counts. However, in mean density per m(2) of substrate, greater abundance and greater species richness values were recorded with the transect-counts than with the point-counts. Newly settled and early juveniles were the dominant component (>84%) of the inshore fish community, consisting primarily (>90%) of grunts (Haemulidae). After the grunts, the wrasses (Labridae) at about 5%, and damselfish (Pomacentridae) at roughly 2% were the predominant families. It is clear from this study and others that the nearshore hardbottom of Broward County is an important juvenile fish habitat, especially for grunts. However, the nearshore hardbottorn does not appear to be obligate habitat for these fishes as fishes associated with this area are, apparently, not unique to the nearshore hardbottom either in species or ontogenic stage. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, Dania, FL 33004 USA; Nova SE Univ, Natl Coral Reef Inst, Dania, FL 33004 USA; Coastal Planning & Engn Inc, Boca Raton, FL 33431 USA; [Spieler, RE] Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, 800 N Ocean Dr, Dania, FL 33004 USA								20							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000222143600006		
J	Szedlmayer, ST; Lee, JD								Diet shifts of juvenile red snapper (<i>Lutjanus compechanus</i>) with changes in habitat and fish size								FISHERY BULLETIN				102	2			366	375					APR 2004	2004	We examined the diets and habitat shift of juvenile red snapper (Lutjanus campechanus) in the northeast Gulf of Mexico. Fish were collected from open sand-mud habitat (little to no relief), and artificial reef habitat (1-m(3) concrete or PVC blocks), from June 1993 through December 1994. In 1994, fish settled over open habitat from June to September, as shown by trawl collections, then began shifting to reef habitat-a shift that was almost completed by December as observed by SCUBA visual surveys. Stomachs were examined from 1639 red snapper that ranged in size from 18.0 to 280.0 mm SL. Of these, 850 fish had empty stomachs, and 346 fish from open habitat and 443 fish from reef habitat contained prey. Prey were identified to the lowest possible taxon and quantified by volumetric measurement. Specific volume of particular prey taxa were calculated by dividing prey volume by individual fish weight. Red snapper shifted diets with increasing size. Small red snapper (<60 mm SL) fed mostly on chaetognaths, copepods, shrimp, and squid. Large red snapper (60-280 mm SL) shifted feeding to fish prey, greater amounts of squid and crabs, and continued feeding on shrimp. We compared red snapper diets for overlapping size classes (70160 mm SL) of fish that were collected from both habitats (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and multidimensional scaling analysis). Red snapper diets separated by habitat type rather than fish size for the size ranges that overlapped habitats. These diet shifts were attributed to feeding more on reef prey than on open-water prey. Thus, the shift in habitat shown by juvenile red snapper was reflected in their diet and suggested differential habitat values based not just on predation refuge but food resources as well.		Auburn Univ, Dept Fisheries, Marine Fish Lab, Fairhope, AL 36532 USA; Barry Vittor & Associates, Mobile, AL 36695 USA; [Szedlmayer, ST] Auburn Univ, Dept Fisheries, Marine Fish Lab, 8300 State Highway 104, Fairhope, AL 36532 USA								89							Fisheries	WOS:000221182500011		
J	Espinosa-Fuentes, ML; Flores-Coto, C								Cross-shelf and vertical structure of ichthyoplankton assemblages in continental shelf waters of the Southern Gulf of Mexico								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				59	2			333	352		10.1016/j.ecss.2003.09.006			FEB 2004	2004	The horizontal and vertical variation of ichthyoplankton assemblages in continental shelf waters of the Southern Gulf of Mexico was studied during an annual cycle (1994-1995) at 22 stations distributed across four transects located off the main fluvio-lagoon systems of the area. Samples were collected from five levels of the water column, from the surface to a depth of 105 m. The Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index identified five assemblages: Coastal, Inner Neritic, Outer Neritic, Oceanic and a Transition Group. The main species of each assemblage reflected the habitat, season, and spawning area of adult organisms. The Coastal Assemblage occupied the uppermost water column levels of the most nearshore stations. The Oceanic Assemblage was restricted to the deepest samplings of the stations of the outer shelf and the Neritic Assemblages were located on the continental shelf between the Coastal and Oceanic Assemblages, embracing all the sampling levels in some periods. Variation in composition, location and abundance of larvae in each assemblage was determined by a series of physical processes that act at different temporal and spatial scales, especially the mixing process generated by the wind stress and continental water discharges acting at a mesoscale that influences the distribution of the assemblages along the whole continental shelf as well as a fine scale affecting the composition and vertical distribution of organisms in a more reduced area of just tens of meters in the water column. Canonical Correspondence Analysis revealed that the depth of the sample, the potential energy, and the temperature generated the greatest variability in the system. Vertical and horizontal salinity gradients play a determinant role in delimiting the Coastal and Neritic Assemblages. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Espinosa-Fuentes, ML] Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, AP 70-305, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								47							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000188413300013		
J	Sánchez-Velasco, L; Jiménez-Rosenberg, SPA; Shirasago, B; Obeso-Nieblas, M								Distribution and abundance of fish larvae in Bahia De La Paz (Gulf of California) and their relation to hydrographic variability during summer (1997-1998)								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				51	6-9			723	737		10.1016/j.dsr2.2004.05.020			2004	2004	Bahia de La Paz, the largest coastal bay in the Gulf of California, is characterized by high diversity of fish species, mainly during summer and autumn. Distributions and abundances of fish larvae in the bay were analyzed and compared with zooplankton, CTD, current and satellite data obtained in July 1997 and August 1998. Larval abundance (>4000 larvae per 100 m(3)) and number of species (>90 species) were high during both cruises. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index was used to define three station groups. The "Coastal" group, with the highest abundance and number of species, was located mainly in the shallow basin of the bay (<30m depth). Larval Gerreidae (e.g. Eucinostomus gracilis, E dowii, and Diapterus peruvianus) and Pomacentridae (Abudefduf troschelii and Stegastes rectifraenum) were the most abundant taxa in this station group, but larval Mullidae (Mulloidichthys dentatus) also were abundant in August 1998. This station group was associated with the highest zooplankton biomass and lowest sea-surface temperature as a result of mixing by the winds and tidal currents that affect this shallow zone. The "Central-A" station group, located in the central bay, and the "Central B" group situated nearby, had low larval abundance and number of species. These station groups coincided with the lowest zooplankton biomass and highest sea-surface temperature in both summers, and with the location of a cold gyre at 50 m depth in July 1997. These conditions are influenced by the water entering from the Gulf of California through the main mouth of the bay (>100 m), resulting in a wide central zone with low larval abundance during both summers. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, La Paz, Mexico; Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, Ave Inst Politecn Nacl S-N,CP 23000, La Paz, Mexico								15							Oceanography	WOS:000224267700016		
J	Sánchez-Velasco, L; Avalos-García, C; Rentería-Cano, M; Shirasago, B								Fish larvae abundance and distribution in the central Gulf of California during strong environmental changes (1997-1998 El Nino and 1998-1999 La Nina)								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				51	6-9			711	722		10.1016/j.dsr2.2004.05.021			2004	2004	The pelagic ecosystem of the Gulf of California was affected by the 1997-1998 El Nino warming event and the 1998-1999 La Nina cooling. Larval fish abundance and distribution were analyzed in the central Gulf during El Nino (November 1997 and March 1998) and La Nina (November 1998 and March 1999). Mean sea-surface temperature (SST) differed significantly between El Nino and La Nina (P<0.05), with variations up to 4degreesC. The lowest zooplankton biomass and larval abundance were recorded during El Nino, when species with tropical-subtropical affinity dominated. The Bray-Curtis Dissimilarity Index defined two persisting station groups. The oceanic group, located south of Islas Angel de la Guarda and Tiburon, was strongly co-dominated by Benthosema panamense, Engraulis mordax, and Vinciguerria lucetia larvae in November 1997, whereas larvae of these species together with Triphoturus mexicanus, Sardinops caeruleus, and Scomber japonicus larvae co-dominated in November 1998. Abundances of these last two species were drastically reduced during El Nino. Larval Diogenichthys laternatus, B. panamense, V. lucetia, and T mexicanus co-dominated the oceanic station group in March 1998, but were less prominent in March 1999, except for V lucetia, which co-dominated with E. mordax larvae. This situation was associated with the peak of maximum intensity of the La Nina. The second station group, located in the vicinity of Big Islands, was dominated by R panamense larvae in both Novembers and by E. mordax larvae in both Marches; in both cases this probably was more reflective of high larval abundance in the adjacent oceanic area than a preferential habitat in the Big Islands vicinity. Results suggest that the fish larvae abundance and distribution were altered in different ways by the environmental changes caused by the 1997-1998 El Nino and 1998-1999 La Nina. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, Ave Inst Politecn Nacl S-N, Mexico City, DF, Mexico								26							Oceanography	WOS:000224267700015		
J	Qian, SS; King, RS; Richardson, CJ								Two statistical methods for the detection of environmental thresholds								ECOLOGICAL MODELLING				166	1-2			87	97		10.1016/S0304-3800(03)00097-8			AUG 1 2003	2003	A nonparametric method and a Bayesian hierarchical modeling method are proposed in this paper for the detection of environmental thresholds. The nonparametric method is based on the reduction of deviance, while the Bayesian method is based on the change in the response variable distribution parameters. Both methods are tested using macroinvertebrate composition data from a mesocosm experiment conducted in the Everglades wetlands, where phosphorus is the limiting nutrient. Using the percent of phosphorus tolerant species and a dissimilarity index as the response variables, both methods resulted in a similar and well-defined TP concentration threshold, with a distribution function that can be used to determine the probability of exceeding the threshold. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Cadmus Grp Inc, Chapel Hill, NC 27517 USA; Duke Univ, Wetland Ctr, Nicholas Sch Environm & Earth Sci, Durham, NC 27708 USA; [Qian, SS] Cadmus Grp Inc, 6330 Quadrangle Dr,Suite 180, Chapel Hill, NC 27517 USA								161							Ecology	WOS:000185162000007		
J	Salmaso, N								Life strategies, dominance patterns and mechanisms promoting species coexistence in phytoplankton communities along complex environmental gradients								HYDROBIOLOGIA				502	1-3			13	36		10.1023/B:HYDR.0000004267.64870.85			JUL 2003	2003	This paper analyses the life strategies, the dominance patterns and the diversity in phytoplankton communities in large and deep lakes. The study was carried out on the largest Italian Lake (Lake Garda) from 1995 to 2000. Different statistical analyses were applied. For phytoplankton the time variable represents a complex environmental gradient driving annual succession; this gradient was made explicit by the application of PCA analyses to the environmental data. The use of Non Metric Multi Dimensional Scaling applied to Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrices revealed an ordered and cyclic development of phytoplankton every year; the Bray-Curtis index, calculated between pairs of chronologically contiguous samples, was also used as a measure of the community change rate (beta(t)) over the temporal succession. A significant relationship between beta(t) and the complex environmental gradient was assessed. Finally, for every phytoplankton species, the optimum conditions for growth and the realised niches were determined. The positioning of the species on the complex environmental gradient, and the contemporaneous application of cluster analysis based on the different specific environmental optima, highlighted primarily the existence of two groups at the extreme of the complex environmental gradient. The first group included the large late winter/spring diatoms, which developed during high water turbulence and strong physical control, high nutrient concentrations, low light conditions and reduced competition. The second group was composed by many heterogeneous summer species characterised by the ability to contrast losses by grazing and sinking in stratified and stable conditions, and the ability of tolerating nutrient deficiency. A third group of species developed during environmental conditions in the middle of the two previous extremes. These included the three master species Mougeotia sp., Fragilaria crotonensis and Planktothrix rubescens/agardhii. The endogenous and exogenous mechanisms promoting species coexistence are discussed, along with the applicability of competitive and equilibrium/non-equilibrium theories to phytoplankton dynamics.		Univ Padua, Dipartimento Biol, I-35131 Padua, Italy; [Salmaso, N] Univ Padua, Dipartimento Biol, Via U Bassi 58-B, I-35131 Padua, Italy								46							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000186636900002		
J	Avalos-García, C; Sánchez-Velasco, L; Shirasago, B								Larval fish assemblages in the Gulf of California and their relation to hydrographic variability (autumn 1997-summer 1998)								BULLETIN OF MARINE SCIENCE				72	1			63	76					JAN 2003	2003	Larval fish assemblages in the Gulf of California and their relation to hydrographic variability were analyzed from zooplankton samples and CTD data obtained from three oceanographic cruises made during autumn 1997, and spring and summer 1998. Sea surface temperature images derived from NOAA-AVHRR data for the same periods were used. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity Index defined three groups of stations persisting from autumn to summer, but varying in area and species composition. The first group, located in the vicinity of Angel de la Guarda and Tiburon islands, was dominated by Engraulis mordax in autumn and spring and Opisthonema spp. in summer. This assemblage is linked to low sea surface temperature that resulted from the strong tidal mixing characteristic of this area. An oceanic group in the major part of the central gulf was dominated by mesopelagic species as Benthosema panamense, Vinciguerria lucetia, and Triphoturus mexicanus. A neritic group, defined on the eastern continental shelf in summer, included a mesopelagic species (Benthosema panamense), demersal coastal species (e.g., Eucinostomus dowii, Diapterus peruvianus, Etropus crossotus, and Lythrypnus dalli), and epipelagic species (Auxis spp.). The spawning of most of them is restricted to the shelf when high sea surface temperatures were recorded. The El Ni (n) over tildeo 1997-1998 resulted in reduced abundance of coastal pelagic species such as Sardinops sagax and Scomber japonicus.		Ctr Interdisciplinario Ciencias Marinas, La Paz 23000, Baja California, Mexico								21							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000184653100004		
J	Walker, BK; Henderson, B; Spieler, RE								Fish assemblages associated with artificial reefs of concrete aggregates or quarry stone offshore Miami Beach, Florida, USA								AQUATIC LIVING RESOURCES				15	2			95	105	PII S0990-7440(02)01154-3	10.1016/S0990-7440(02)01154-3			APR 2002	2002	Few studies have compared the suitability of different artificial reef construction materials in terms of their efficacy in acquiring diverse faunal assemblages. We compared the fishes associated with 12 co-located reefs constructed of limestone quarry boulders, concrete-gravel aggregate, or concrete-tire aggregate (four of each substrate) in 7 m of water, 200 m offshore Miami Beach, Florida, USA. All 12 reefs were deployed 100 rn apart the same day in two lines of six. The four quarry stone reefs consist of a pile of 50 boulders each. The remaining eight reefs, of concrete-gravel aggregate and concrete-tire aggregate, were each constructed with 25 1.5 m edge and 25 1.2 m edge tetrahedron modules. Every two months from October 1998 to February 2001, SCUBA divers recorded fish species, abundance, and length, as well as spiny lobster, Panulirus argus, abundance. One hundred and forty-six species of fishes were recorded during the study period. The abundance and species richness of fish on each treatment exhibited a significant (p<0.05) seasonal variation with summer months having the greatest numbers and winter the lowest. There was no significant difference in total fish or spiny lobster abundance or fish biomass amongst the three reef types (p>0.05). Likewise, multi-dimensional scaling of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices did not indicate clustering of fish assemblages by reef type. Comparison of pre-deployment fish counts from the reef sites and neighboring hard bottom and jetty with counts from the same sites two years post-deployment indicate the artificial reefs increased both fish abundance and richness in the local area. (C) 2002 Ifremer/CNRS/Inra/IRD/Cemagref/Editions scientifiques et medicales Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.		Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, Dania, FL 33004 USA; [Spieler, RE] Nova SE Univ, Oceanog Ctr, 8000 N Ocean Dr, Dania, FL 33004 USA								38							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000175536500003		
J	Chícharo, L; Chícharo, A; Gaspar, M; Alves, F; Regala, J								Ecological characterization of dredged and non-dredged bivalve fishing areas off south Portugal								JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM				82	1			41	50		10.1017/S0025315402005167			FEB 2002	2002	Macro and meiobenthic communities of two fishing areas (Vilamoura and Lagos) in the western part of south Portugal (Algarve coast) were analysed. Both locations had been under severe dredge-fishing impact until four years previously. Vilamoura has since continued to be dredged, while fishing activity in Lagos was stopped in 1995 as a response to overfishing. For each location, three replicate areas were analysed at depths of 7-9 m. In each of these areas, 18 quadrats for macrofauna and 12 cores for meiofauna were randomly sampled by SCUBA divers during September 1999. The Shannon-Weiner diversity index was higher for meiofauna in the fished area, whereas macrofauna diversity was higher in the recently non-fished area. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity between the two areas was 87.82%. Major differences were found between Ampeliscidea, Amphiura mediterranea, Spisula solida, Haustoriidae, Nemertinea and Diogenes pugilator populations at the two sites. There was higher abundance but lower biomass of potential macrofaunal scavengers in the fished area, and carnivore biomass was also higher in this area. Deposit-feeders dominated meiofauna abundance in both study areas. The community structure of the continuously fished area was dominated by small, opportunistic, short-lived species while the community structure of the recently non-fished area was dominated by more fragile and long-living sessile organisms.		Univ Algarve, UCTRA, CCMAR, P-8000810 Faro, Portugal; CRIPSUL, Inst Invest Pescas & Mar, P-8700305 Olhao, Portugal								37							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000174475600005		
J	Moncheva, S; Gotsis-Skretas, O; Pagou, K; Krastev, A								Phytoplankton blooms in Black Sea and Mediterranean coastal ecosystems subjected to anthropogenic eutrophication: Similarities and differences								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				53	3			281	295		10.1006/ecss.2001.0767			SEP 2001	2001	The similarities and differences in phytoplankton response to anthropogenic nutrient enrichment were studied in coastal sites of the Western Black Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean (Aegean Sea). Although by physico-chemical parameters, two different environments have been compared, the two regions exhibited similar features: 14 common bloom species in the list of bloom producing algae, the highest rate of occurrence and variety of microalgae involved in summer, the highest average level of competitors-strategies species during the summer outbursts, the similar range of maximum bloom densities attained, and similar capacity to sustain critical biomass during all seasons. The low taxonomic similarity (Bray-Curtis index lower than 30%) between the different basins and among sites, could be attributed to both natural factors and dissimilarities and to the gradients in nutrient levels and their ratios, as affected by the different nature and severity of the anthropogenic pressures on the coastal ecosystems. The results of the PCA analysis indicate that temperature and salinity are factors contributing to the differences outlined between the Aegean Sea and the Black Sea ecosystems, but the differences among the selected sites give support to the importance of nutrients and their ratios. Although competitive outcomes in phytoplankton species selection and succession cannot yet be predicted, the analysis suggests that anthropogenic nutrient enrichment could play an important role in driving the phytoplankton bloom performance. The comparative studies between different basins could be a step forward to highlight common patterns and modes of ecosystem response to anthropogenic eutrophication and to suggest common indices to scale eutrophication impact. (C) 2001 Academic Press.		BAS, Inst Oceanol, Varna 9000, Bulgaria; Natl Ctr Marine Res, Inst Oceanog, GR-16604 Athens, Greece; [Moncheva, S] BAS, Inst Oceanol, POB 152, Varna 9000, Bulgaria								165							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000171863500003		
J	Mumby, PJ								Beta and habitat diversity in marine systems: a new approach to measurement, scaling and interpretation								OECOLOGIA				128	2			274	280		10.1007/s004420100643			JUL 2001	2001	Habitat diversity is a widely used criterion for locating conservation activities such as protected areas. Most habitat diversity indices are measures of alpha diversity at the scale of habitats and are therefore insensitive to the underlying biological differences between habitats. To incorporate such inter-habitat differences, a new method is presented which calculates a measure of beta (beta) diversity from pixels within a window passed throughout a habitat map. To avoid confusion with beta diversity indices, the new measure is called beta -dissimilarity. beta -Dissimiliarity is calculated from the mean Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, D-m, of field data which comprise each habitat class. The variance of D-m distinguishes discrete beta -dissimilarity distributions from homogenous patterns. The method also attempts to remove some of the arbitrary aspects of habitat mapping, can be scaled to other levels of diversity or measures of community structure, is readily interpretable and permits hypothesis testing. Its applications to ecosystem science and coastal management are discussed and illustrated.		Newcastle Univ, Dept Marine Sci & Coastal Management, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, Tyne & Wear, England; [Mumby, PJ] Newcastle Univ, Dept Marine Sci & Coastal Management, Ridley Bldg, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, Tyne & Wear, England								38							Ecology	WOS:000170392500014		
J	Weibull, AC; Bengtsson, J; Nohlgren, E								Diversity of butterflies in the agricultural landscape: the role of farming system and landscape heterogeneity								ECOGRAPHY				23	6			743	750		10.1034/j.1600-0587.2000.230611.x			DEC 2000	2000	To examine the importance of management practices and landscape structure on diversity of butterflies 16 farms with organic or conventional management were censused during 1997 and 1998. On each farm a transect route was walked during July and the beginning of August, six times in 1997 and five times in 1998. The farms were located in the central part of Sweden in two adjacent regions with the same pool of species. The organic and conventional Farms were paired with help of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index according to land use to control for landscape structure on the farm level. On each Farm calculations were made of large- and small-scale landscape heterogeneity with the help of GIS. A grid with a mesh size of 400 m was placed over each farm and the small-scale heterogeneity was calculated as the mean habitat diversity of four squares. The large-scale landscape heterogeneity described the landscape in which the farms were imbedded, and covered an area of 5 x 5 km. No differences in butterfly diversity, number of species or number of observations were noted between organic and conventional farms. Butterfly diversity was positively correlated with small-scale landscape heterogeneity while butterfly abundance was positively correlated with large-scale heterogeneity. Both large-scale and small-scale heterogeneity were important For the composition of species. The landscape structure seemed to be more important for butterfly diversity and species composition than the farming system in itself.		Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol & Crop Prod Sci, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden; [Weibull, AC] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol & Crop Prod Sci, Box 7043, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden								260							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000166135300011		
J	Bettinetti, R; Morabito, G; Provini, A								Phytoplankton assemblage structure and dynamics as indicator of the recent trophic and biological evolution of the western basin of Lake Como (N. Italy)								HYDROBIOLOGIA				435	1-3			177	190		10.1023/A:1004055710353			SEP 2000	2000	We studied the phytoplankton assemblage of the western basin of Lake Como (Northern Italy) during 1997. The phytoplankton assemblage was composed of 65 taxa, belonging to six taxonomic groups. Chlorophyta were represented by the highest number of taxa (28) followed by Bacillariophyceae (17), Cyanoprokaryota (9), Dinophyceae (6), Chrysophyceae (3) and Cryptophyta (2). The total assemblage density and biomass ranged from 902 ind ml(-)1 and 134.5 mm(3) m(-3) in February to 58 766 ind ml(-) (1) and 9360 mm(3) m(-3) in October. The density and biomass variation at three stations showed a common pattern, with higher values in the southern part of the basin where TP concentrations were always greater. The phytoplankton succession was analysed by cluster analysis (average linkage clustering) and non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination, both applied to a dissimilarity matrix obtained from a calculation of the Bray-Curtis index. In general, the seasonal succession followed a simple pattern, with a clear spring phase. These results are discussed considering the trophic evolution of the lake and its recent colonization by Dreissena polymorpha.		CNR, Ist Italiano Idrobiol, Verbania, Italy; Univ Milan, Dipartimento Biol, Sez Ecol, Milan, Italy; [Morabito, G] CNR, Ist Italiano Idrobiol, Verbania, Italy								14							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000165253800017		
J	Van Sickle, J; Hughes, RM								Classification strengths of ecoregions, catchments, and geographic clusters for aquatic vertebrates in Oregon								JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY				19	3			370	384		10.2307/1468101			SEP 2000	2000	The usefulness of ecoregions and catchments (hydrologic units) as bases for classifying aquatic vertebrate assemblages in western Oregon was compared using samples collected by electro-fishing from 137 wadeable stream sites distributed evenly throughout the region. The classification strengths of these regionalizations were also compared with neutral-model classifications that were based either on intersite proximities in geographic distance or on intersite similarities in the sampled vertebrate assemblages. The strength of each classification was assessed by the extent to which average within-class assemblage similarities exceeded the average similarity between classes. Mean similarity dendrograms were used as a concise graphical comparison of between and within-class similarities for alternative classifications, whether they were specified a priori or constructed by clustering. For each a priori classification, a permutation test of the no class structure hypothesis was performed. Classification strengths were assessed using the Sorenson-Dice (presence/absence) and Bray-Curtis (relative abundance) similarity measures, applied to both species-level and family-level assemblage characterizations, as well as for the Bray-Curtis measure applied to a set of 5 assemblage metrics that were designed to reflect stream impairment. For all 5 measures of assemblage similarity, ecoregions had higher classification strengths than did large catchments, and large catchments had about the same strength as a stream-order classification A catchment classification with 1 of the 3 catchments split into 2 ecoregions separated assemblages as strongly as ecoregions alone. A neutral-model classification based solely on geographic site proximity classified assemblages with about the same strength as ecoregions. Another neutral-model classification of sites, based solely on their sampled assemblages, was at least twice as strong as any of the geographic classifications. Intermediate strength was seen in site groupings derived from a composite measure of between-site assemblage and geographic dissimilarities. Our results suggest that ecoregions and large catchments do indeed have utility for classifying stream vertebrate assemblages. However, much of their classification strength may be a result of spatial autocorrelation effects, rather than ecological factors that determine their particular boundaries. Our similarity analyses also suggest that geographic partitions can be expected to account for only a minor portion of the total variation seen in stream vertebrate assemblages across a large region.		US EPA, Western Ecol Div, Natl Hlth & Environm Effects Res Lab, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA; Dynamac Inc, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA; [Van Sickle, J] US EPA, Western Ecol Div, Natl Hlth & Environm Effects Res Lab, 200 SW 35th St, Corvallis, OR 97333 USA								136							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000089896100002		
J	Flores-Coto, C; Martínez-Gutiérrez, R; González-Félix, M; Sanvicente-Añorve, L; Zavala-García, F								Annual variation of ichthyoplankton assemblages in Neritic waters of the southern Gulf of Mexico								CARIBBEAN JOURNAL OF SCIENCE				36	3-4			233	243					2000	2000	Intra-annual variations in larval fish assemblages in the southern Gulf of Mexico are analyzed in relation to the main fluvio-lagoon systems. Zooplankton samples were obtained with Bongo nets, mesh 505 mum, during February, June, September, and November 1992 from 22 sampling stations located at four transects perpendicular to the coast line. Fish larvae were sorted and identified at the lowest possible taxonomic level. Data were standardized to larvae per 100 m(3) and the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index was applied to determine the larval fish assemblages throughout the annual cycle. The analysis discovered two main larval fish assemblages: Coastal and Neritic. Each assemblage depicted subgroups that varied in location and extension throughout the year. The spawning period and spawning location of the species are the main factors differentiating the Coastal from the Neritic assemblages. However, variations in composition and extension of the subgroups along the year can be attributed to the main circulation patterns, the continental water discharges, and mainly to the mixing process. Similarities between this work and previous ones, regarding hydrography and larval fish assemblages, suggest that assemblages and their variations are recurrent events in the continental shelf of the southern Gulf of Mexico.		Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Estudios Super Zaragoza, Mexico City 15000, DF, Mexico; [Flores-Coto, C] Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Apdo Postal 70-305, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								11							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000167252300005		
J	Grioche, A; Koubbi, P; Harlay, X								Spatial patterns of ichthyoplankton assemblages along the eastern English Channel French coast during spring 1995								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				49	1			141	152		10.1006/ecss.1999.0483			JUL 1999	1999	Two surveys were conducted during April and May 1995 along the French coast of the eastern English Channel. They aimed to describe the influence of environmental features-water advection through the Straits of Dover and the hydrological coastal front-on ichthyoplankton assemblages. Multivariate analysis, using the non-metric multi-dimensional scaling and based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index, was associated with multiple regression to characterize the spatial larval distribution and to relate it to the environmental factors. During the April survey only young larvae were found. They were separated into a coastal larvae assemblage, characterized by high water temperature and fluorescence of chlorophyll a and two offshore assemblages limited to high salinity water. During the May survey, young larvae were mainly located in offshore waters, in the south of the Picarde Bay and in the Straits, where high offshore chlorophyll a fluorescence was found. In contrast old larvae were found along the coast, near estuaries. This pattern shows a spatial segregation of developmental stages of larvae in this area due to adult spawning migration, larval drift and ontogentic migration. Larval distributions can be explained by salinity, temperature and concentration of chlorophyll a, but the spatial evolution of those parameters during spring have also to be taken into account for the comparison of the distributions between both surveys. (C) 1999 Academic Press.		Univ Littoral Cote dOpale, Lab Ichtyoecol Marine, F-62228 Calais, France; [Grioche, A] Univ Littoral Cote dOpale, Lab Ichtyoecol Marine, 17 Ave Beleriot,BP 699, F-62228 Calais, France								24							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000081575300010		
J	Hobday, DK; Officer, RA; Parry, GD								Changes to demersal fish communities in Port Phillip Bay, Australia, over two decades, 1970-91								MARINE AND FRESHWATER RESEARCH				50	5			397	407		10.1071/MF97088			1999	1999	Changes to the structure of fish communities in Port Phillip Bay between 1970 and 1991 were analysed by trawling at 14 stations sampled regularly during 1970-75 and in 1990/91. Differences between stations were compared by using Bray-Curtis dissimilarity indices, multidimensional scaling and analysis of variance for the most abundant species. Differences between two sampling periods in the 1970s appear to be the result of the use of different vessels for trawling. A third vessel was used during 1990/91, but differences in catches between 1972-75 and 1990/91 appear to represent real temporal changes rather than differences between trawl efficiencies. Between 1972-75 and 1990/91, increased fishing pressure is the most likely explanation for declines in several important commercial and recreational species. A consequent decrease in competition may have caused an increase in the abundance of stingarees. A decline in seagrass abundance in the western bay probably reduced the abundance of several seagrass-dependent species. The Japanese goby was introduced into the bay after the mid 1970s, and populations of little rock whiting in the western bay and globefish in deep regions of Port Phillip Bay appear to have increased because of the recent establishment of additional exotic invertebrates.		Marine & Freshwater Resources Inst, Queenscliffe, Vic, Australia; [Hobday, DK] Marine & Freshwater Resources Inst, POB 114, Queenscliffe, Vic, Australia								12							Fisheries; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000080635500004		
J	Mueter, FJ; Norcross, BL								Linking community structure of small demersal fishes around Kodiak Island, Alaska, to environmental variables								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				190				37	51		10.3354/meps190037			1999	1999	Juveniles and small adults of at least 75 species of demersal fishes were identified in trawl catches from the nearshore waters of Kodiak Island, Alaska, in August 1991 and 1992. We derived several indices to characterize community structure at each site, identified key environmental gradients along which community structure was organized, and identified those species whose abundances varied most strongly along these gradients. We related species richness, species diversity, and total catch per unit effort to environmental variables observed at each site. Species richness and diversity were highly variable among sites, but decreased significantly with salinity and were significantly higher on heterogeneous sediments. Standardized catch per unit effort for all species combined differed significantly among 5 geographic areas and was significantly higher on sediments with a high sand and/or mud content. Indices of species composition for each sampling site were obtained as the scores of ordination axes based on non-metric multidimensional scaling of Bray-Curtis dissimilarities between sites. The indices summarized different aspects of community composition and were associated with different species groups. The first and major index was primarily related to the depth-temperature gradient and contrasted a shallow, warm water species group with a deep, cold water group. Non-linear depth effects on most indices suggest relatively rapid changes in species composition in shallow water (0 to 50 m), and more gradual changes in the lower part of the depth range. While the depth-temperature gradient was the most important gradient along which species composition was structured, sediment composition and geographic area accounted for a significant proportion of the variance of each of the indices. While species composition changed most strongly along the depth-temperature gradient, species richness, diversity, and total abundance were not related to depth or temperature, suggesting that species composition changed independently of the overall abundance and of species richness and diverstity.		Univ Alaska, Inst Marine Sci, Fairbanks, AK 99775 USA; [Mueter, FJ] Simon Fraser Univ, Sch Resource & Environm Management, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada								42							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000084553000004		
J	Sanvicente-Anorve, L; Flores-Coto, C; Sanchez-Velasco, L								Spatial and seasonal patterns of larval fish assemblages in the southern Gulf of Mexico								BULLETIN OF MARINE SCIENCE				62	1			17	30					JAN 1998	1998	Larval fish assemblages and the factors affecting their spatial and seasonal dynamics in the southern Gulf of Mexico were studied. The ichthyoplankton material came from three oceanographic cruises during spring (1983), winter (1984) and summer (1987). To determine ichthyoplankton assemblages, a clustering method based on the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index was applied. Three distinct fish larvae assemblages were identified, corresponding to the physiography of the area. Occurrence of the main fish larvae species in each one reflects principally the spawning strategies of adult fish. The "coastal assemblage" occupied the east shallow coastal area; its characteristic species being closely related to the estuarine and lagoonal systems, comprising mainly Sciaenidae, Carangidae and Triglidae. The "neritic assemblage" occupied the continental shelf and its characteristic species consisted of larvae whose adults inhabit the neritic province and spawn in the same zone, like some species of Bothidae, Cynoglossidae and Bregmacerotidae. The "oceanic assemblage" occupied deep water areas and its main components were species whose adults inhabit the mesopelagic province, most were myctophid and gonostomatid fishes. Major factors affecting spatial and seasonal variations of ichthyoplankton assemblages are proposed to be the main circulation pattern in the southern gulf, continental water discharges, mixing processes, and fish spawning areas and periods.		Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Sanvicente-Anorve, L] Natl Autonomous Univ Mexico, Inst Ciencias Mar & Limnol, Apartado Postal 70-305, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								43							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000076472700003		
J	Warwick, RM; McEvoy, AJ; Thrush, SF								The influence of Atrina zelandica Gray on meiobenthic nematode diversity and community structure								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				214	1-2			231	247		10.1016/S0022-0981(96)02776-1			JUL 1 1997	1997	The influence of the large suspension feeding horse mussel Atrina zelandica Gray on meiobenthic diversity and community structure has been studied at two sites in New Zealand where Atrina beds form discrete patches. Community attributes inside (IN samples) and outside the beds (OUT samples) in the bare sediment have been compared. At both a sheltered muddy harbour site and a more exposed coastal sandy site, significant effects were found. These were stronger, however, at the sheltered site: The presence of Atrina resulted in (i) a greater reduction in several univariate measures (including Shannon diversity), (ii) more pronounced changes in the form of k-dominance curves, (iii) greater differences in species composition as revealed by the R-statistic of ANOSIM, (iv) a higher value for average Bray Curtis dissimilarity between IN and OUT samples and, finally, (v) greater variability among the IN samples compared with the OUT samples as measured by the Index of Multivariate Dispersion. Variations in density of different nematode functional groups indicate that the detrimental effects of Atrina on meiobenthic biodiversity may be attributed to its activity (production of biodeposits) and physical presence, resulting in reduced oxygen concentrations in the sediment. At the exposed coastal sandy site, the mussels were older and probably produced less biodeposits per unit biomass, and also the wave-induced flows over the bed are more likely to result in sediment mixing, which will tend to blur local effects. (C) 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.		NATL INST WATER & ATMOSPHER RES,HAMILTON,NEW ZEALAND; [Warwick, RM] PLYMOUTH MARINE LAB,PROSPECT PL,W HOE,PLYMOUTH PL1 3DH,DEVON,ENGLAND								45							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1997XG46900014		
J	Pardo, I; Armitage, PD								Species assemblages as descriptors of mesohabitats								HYDROBIOLOGIA				344				111	128		10.1023/A:1002958412237			JAN 31 1997	1997	Eight mesohabitats, visually distinct units of habitat within the stream, were sampled seasonally in a lowland chalkstream reach. The aim of the study was to test if mesohabitats defined as structural units were inhabited by particular species assemblages and how these varied with season. Classification (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and UPGMA) and ordination analyses (DCA) of the distribution of 258 species in 230 samples, were first used to check the agreement between the subjectively-selected mesohabitat and their associated faunal assemblages. There was a good correspondence, and mesohabitat samples were grouped into 5 major groups (Ranunculus in spring, silt, sand, gravel and macrophytes) which were further sub-divided to give a total of 11 groups when seasonal differences were considered. Spearman rank correlation between the spatial distribution of mesohabitat groups with environmental variables revealed that water velocity and flow dynamics together with the nature of the substratum, influenced the distribution of the benthic communities. To evaluate qualitative and quantitative differences in taxa composition among mesohabitats, information statistics tests and analyses of variance were used in combination with the Tukey honestly significant difference test. The 11 groups were characterised by abundance and frequency indicator species. Inverse analysis of dominant species of the community showed a good equivalence with mesohabitat groups and their indicator species obtained by direct analysis. The resulting species assemblages represent faunal adaptation to the particular mesohabitats in relation to natural environmental fluctuations. The mesohabitat scale provides a convenient structural ecological unit to examine the functional dynamics of faunal communities in rivers.		INST FRESHWATER ECOL,WAREHAM BH20 6BB,DORSET,ENGLAND								127							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1997XB54800012		
J	Salmaso, N								Seasonal variation in the composition and rate of change of the phytoplankton community in a deep subalpine lake (Lake Garda, northern Italy). An application of nonmetric multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis								HYDROBIOLOGIA				337	1-3			49	68		10.1007/BF00028506			NOV 1 1996	1996	Seasonal variations and spatial homogeneity of the phytoplankton community were followed, from spring 1991 to spring 1992, in four pelagic stations of a large deep subalpine lake (Lake Garda, Northern Italy). Both cluster analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) applied to Bray & Curtis' dissimilarity matrices computed on density and biovolume data were employed; the Bray & Curtis index, calculated between pairs of chronologically contiguous samples, was also used as a measure of the community change rate over the temporal succession. In the tree diagrams obtained both from density and biovolume data, six groups of different size have been identified, with ordered sequences of samples within them. Superimposition of the results of cluster analysis on the NMDS configurations has allowed interpretations of the trajectories of the samples as a chronological and cyclical succession of compositionally homogeneous groups. A clear relationship between the community change rate and stability of the water column has been assessed. The specific composition of the six groups has been discussed in relation to environmental variables and in terms of adaptive strategies. During winter (winter-spring group) the turbulence of the water and the availability of nutrients favour the development of colonial Bacillariophyceae (Fragilaria crotonensis Kitten, Tabellaria fenestrata (Lyngb.) Kutz., Aulacoseira spp.), Cyanophyceae (Planktothrix agardhii (Gem.) Anagn. et Kom. and Planktolyngbya limnetica (Lemm.) Kom.-Legn. et Cronb.) and Cryptophyceae. In late spring group, with the stabilisation of the water column and silicon depletion, the diatoms give way to small, opportunistic species (Ankyra judayi (G. M. Smith) Fott, Cyclotella spp., Chroomonas acuta Utermhol) and larger species (Ceratium hirundinella (O. F. Mull.) Dujardin). The three summer groups are characterised by a development of Chlorophyceae (chiefly Chlorococcales), Cyanophyceae (mainly Chroococcales), Cyclotella spp. and Dinophyceae. With the autumn destratification the summer community undergoes a rearrangement principally in favour of Cyanophyceae and Cryptophyceae.		[Salmaso, N] UNIV PADUA,DEPT BIOL,VIA TRIESTE 75,I-35121 PADUA,ITALY								36							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1996WB14600005		
J	Dahl, B; Blanck, H								Pollution-induced community tolerance (PICT) in periphyton communities established under tri-n-butyltin (TBT) stress in marine microcosms								AQUATIC TOXICOLOGY				34	4			305	325		10.1016/0166-445X(95)00046-7			APR 1996	1996	The environmental problem of the antifouling agent tri-n-butyltin (TBT) was recognized during the 1980's and the use of TBT on pleasure crafts was banned in several countries. Marine periphyton were established in a flow-through aquaria system under TBT stress. Pollution-induced community tolerance (PICT) was quantified, in a short-term test for inhibition of photosynthesis, and compared to effects on biomass and community structure. Community structure was measured by diatom species richness, Jaccard similarity index, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and evaluated by linear regression and multidimensional scaling (MDS) techniques. The aim was to (1) determine a no effect level for marine periphyton communities under ecologically realistic conditions (2) validate PICT against other longterm effect indicators (3) confirm, with a controlled experiment, the TBT effect thresholds indicated by PICT studies in the field. We found that TBT alone indeed was able to cause the same kind of effects on periphyton that earlier have been detected in periphyton from contaminated ecosystems and that the effects occur at concentrations in water higher than 0.5 nM TBT. The agreement between TBT effects in field and in the microcosm system implies that the system is sufficiently realistic in yielding ecologically relevant information. Effect indicators such as periphyton photosynthesis and net production were found to be less sensitive than PICT and community structure.		UNIV GOTHENBURG,DEPT PLANT PHYSIOL,INST BOT,S-41319 GOTHENBURG,SWEDEN								44							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Toxicology	WOS:A1996UN65400003		
J	MAC NALLY, RC								ON CHARACTERIZING FORAGING VERSATILITY, ILLUSTRATED BY USING BIRDS								OIKOS				69	1			95	106					FEB 1994	1994	Versatility in foraging behavior is a crucial component of several areas of behavioral and ecological research, including optimal foraging, ecomorphological studies, resource partitioning, and comparisons of guild structures. Unfortunately, the methods by which foraging versatility has been characterized in the past (e.g., Shannon-Wiener and inverse Simpson diversity indices) produce inconsistent results depending upon the degree to which workers split or lump categories of foraging manoeuvres. I refer to this problem as aliasing, by analogy to a similar difficulty that arises in signal processing in electrical engineering. A review of the avian foraging literature showed that as the number of species studied increases, the more classes of manoeuvre are recognized by workers. Thus, for example, between two and seven manoeuvres have been used for studies involving two species. A method is presented here to afford some protection against aliasing by using a new versatility index that explicitly accounts for dissimilarities between foraging classes. A published data set is used as the basis to compare the new approach with the most common existing index, the standardized Shannon-Wiener index. Results of this comparison demonstrate the superior consistency of the versatility index derived from the new approach. The method should not be regarded as entirely automatic. The Canberra and Czekanowski (Bray-Curtis) dissimilarity measures seem to be the best of several common indices for estimating dissimilarities between manoeuvres; others tested provide inaccurate reflections of dissimilarities between foraging activities.		[MAC NALLY, RC] MONASH UNIV, DEPT ECOL & EVOLUT BIOL, CLAYTON, VIC 3168, AUSTRALIA								19							Ecology	WOS:A1994MR88700011		
