PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	Loubota Panzou, Grace Jopaul; Mankessi, Francois; Tsiba Ngambou, Floriane Celia; Douh, Chauvelin; Ndzai, Saint Fedriche; Nzala, Donatien; Koubouana, Felix								Natural forest regeneration over a fallow age chronosequence in central African moist forests								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				62	2					e13255	10.1111/aje.13255			FEB 2024	2024	A better understanding of the natural regeneration in tropical forests could help develop more effective restoration strategies. This study examined relationships in structural and diversity attributes of natural regeneration in five forest fallow ages after slash-and-burn agriculture (6 months, 2 years, 5 years, 10 years, and 15 years) in the Republic of Congo. For each fallow age, all stems with a diameter >= 1 cm and below 5 cm (height >= 130 cm), corresponding to natural forest regeneration, were identified to the species level, and measured (diameter and height) in 12 plots (10 m x 10 m). Three structural attributes (stem density, maximum diameter, and maximum height) and five diversity indices (species richness, Shannon diversity, Simpson diversity, Fisher's alpha and Pielou's evenness) were estimated at the plot level. Our results revealed an increase in structural and diversity attributes with fallow ages, except stem density. The young fallow (6 months, 2 years and 5 years) had greater stem density (61 +/- 48 stems), while the old fallow (10 years and 15 years) had higher maximum height (5.39 +/- 2.36 m) and Shannon's index (0.94 +/- 0.18). These results provided new insights into natural regeneration between young and old secondary forests. Une meilleure comprehension de la regeneration naturelle dans les forets tropicales pourrait aider a developper des strategies de restauration plus efficaces. Cette etude a examine les relations entre les attributs structurels et de diversite de la regeneration naturelle dans cinq ages de jachere forestiere apres l'agriculture sur brulis (6 mois, 2 ans, 5 ans, 10 ans et 15 ans) en Republique du Congo. Pour chaque age de jachere, toutes les tiges d'un diametre >= 1 cm et inferieur a 5 cm (hauteur >= 130 cm), correspondant a la regeneration naturelle de la foret, ont ete identifiees au niveau de l'espece et mesurees (diametre et hauteur) dans 12 parcelles (10 m x 10 m). Trois attributs structurels (densite des tiges, diametre maximal et hauteur maximale) et cinq indices de diversite (richesse des especes, diversite de Shannon, diversite de Simpson, alpha de Fisher et regularite de Pielou) ont ete estimes au niveau de la parcelle. Nos resultats ont revele une augmentation des attributs structurels et de la diversite avec l'age de la jachere, a l'exception de la densite des tiges. Les jeunes jacheres (6 mois, 2 ans et 5 ans) avaient une plus grande densite de tiges (61 +/- 48 tiges), tandis que les vieilles jacheres (10 ans et 15 ans) avaient une hauteur maximale plus elevee (5,39 +/- 2,36 m) et un indice de Shannon plus eleve (0,94 +/- 0,18). Ces resultats ont permis de mieux comprendre la regeneration naturelle entre les jeunes et les vieilles forets secondaires.		[Loubota Panzou, Grace Jopaul] Univ Denis Sassou Nguesso, Inst Super Sci Geograph Environm & Amenagement ISS, Kintele, Rep Congo; [Loubota Panzou, Grace Jopaul] Univ Marien Ngouabi, Fac Sci & Tech, Lab Biodivers Gest Ecosyst & Environm LBGE, Brazzaville, Rep Congo; [Mankessi, Francois; Tsiba Ngambou, Floriane Celia; Douh, Chauvelin; Ndzai, Saint Fedriche; Nzala, Donatien; Koubouana, Felix] Univ Marien Ngouabi, Ecole Natl Super Agron & Foresterie ENSAF, Brazzaville, Rep Congo; [Loubota Panzou, Grace Jopaul] Univ Denis Sassou Nguesso, Inst Super Sci Geograph Environm & Amenagement ISS, Kintele, Rep Congo								0							Ecology	WOS:001160440200001		
J	Lawson, Lauren; Edge, Christopher B.; Fortin, Marie-Josee; Jackson, Donald A.								Temporal change in urban fish biodiversity-Gains, losses, and drivers of change								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				14	2					e10845	10.1002/ece3.10845			FEB 2024	2024	Our aim was to examine temporal change in alpha and beta diversity of freshwater fish communities in rivers that have urbanized over the same period to understand the influence of changes in land use and river connectivity on community change. We used biological (2001-2018), land use (2000-2015), and connectivity data (1987-2017) from Toronto, Ontario, Canada. We used linear mixed effects models to determine the strength of upstream land use, connectivity, and their changes over time to explain temporal change in alpha and beta diversity indices. We examined beta diversity using the temporal beta diversity index (TBI) to assess site-specific community change. The TBI was partitioned into gains and losses, and species-specific changes in abundance were assessed using paired t-tests. There were more gains than losses across the study sites as measured by TBI. We found little to no significant differences in species-specific abundances at aggregated spatial scales (study region, watershed, stream order). We found different relationships between landscape and connectivity variables with the biodiversity indices tested; however, almost all estimated confidence intervals overlapped with zero and had low goodness-of-fit. More fish biodiversity gains than losses were found across the study region, as measured by TBI. We found TBI to be a useful indicator of change as it identifies key sites to further investigate. We found two high value TBI sites gained non-native species, and one site shifted from a cool-water to warm-water species dominated community, both of which have management implications. Upstream catchment land use and connectivity had poor explanatory power for change in the measured biodiversity indices. Ultimately, such spatial-temporal datasets are invaluable and can reveal trends in biodiversity useful for environmental management when considering competing interests involved with urban sprawl in the ongoing "Decade on Restoration." We assess urban fish community change over time and drivers of change related to urbanization including land cover change and connectivity. Using the TBI, species richness, Pielou's evenness, and Shannon diversity, we find that land cover and connectivity do not effectively explain community change. Overall, the TBI suggests there are more gains than losses in fish communities through time.image		[Lawson, Lauren; Fortin, Marie-Josee; Jackson, Donald A.] Univ Toronto, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 25 Willcocks St, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada; [Edge, Christopher B.] Nat Resources Canada, Canadian Forest Serv, Atlantic Forestry Ctr, Fredericton, NB, Canada; [Lawson, Lauren] Univ Toronto, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 25 Willcocks St, Toronto, ON M5S 1A1, Canada								0							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:001157123100001		
J	Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Abdullo, Madaminov; Sino, Yusupov; Fan, Lianlian								Nutrient addition alters plant community productivity but not the species diversity of a mountain meadow in Tajikistan								FRONTIERS IN PLANT SCIENCE				14						1235388	10.3389/fpls.2023.1235388			JAN 15 2024	2024	Introduction: Tajikistan is a typical mountainous country covered by different mountain grasslands that are important pasture resources. Recently, grassland degradation has become widespread due to climate change and human activities and fertilization has been used to improve grassland production. However, fertilizer inputs can substantially alter species diversity, but it is uncl\ear how productivity and species diversity respond to nutrient enrichment in the mountain meadows of Tajikistan. Methods: Therefore, a 5-year (2018-2022) continuous in-situ mineral fertilizer experiment was conducted to examine the effects of three nitrogen (N) levels (0, 30, and 90 kg N ha(-1) year(-1)), two phosphorus (P) levels (0 and 30 kg P ha(-1) year(-1)), and their combinations on above-ground biomass (AGB) and species diversity in a mountain meadow grassland in Ziddi, Varzob region, Tajikistan. Five species diversity metrics-Margalef's species richness (D-ma), the Shannon-Wiener index (H), the Simpson index (C), Pielou's equitability index (E-pi), and the Evar Species Evenness index (E-var)-were used to measure species diversity. Results and discussions: The results indicated that the addition of different N and P amounts and their various combinations considerably increased both total and dominant species AGB, with the highest increase occurring in the N90P30 (90 kg N ha(-1) year(-1) combined with 30 kg P ha(-1) year(-1)) treatment in 2022; during the experiment, the importance value of Prangos pabularia (dominant species) first decreased and then increased, but its dominant status did not change or fluctuate among the years. Furthermore, N, P, and their different combinations had no significant effect on species diversity (D-ma, H, C, E-pi, and E-var). All the species diversity indexes fluctuated among years, but there was no interaction with mineral fertilizer addition. Total AGB had a negative relationship with species diversity and low concentration N fertilizer addition (N30; P30) strengthened this negative trend. However, this trend decreased under the high N fertilizer condition (N90P30). Overall, nutrient addition to the natural mountain grassland of the Varzob region improved AGB, which meant that there was more forage for local animals. Mineral fertilizers had no significant effect on species diversity, but may enhance P. pabularia dominance in the future, which will help maintain the stability of the plant community and improve the quality of the forage because P. pabularia is an excellent and important winter fodder. Our study suggests that scientific nutrient management could effectively promote grassland production, conserve plant variety, and regenerate degraded grassland, which will counteract the desertification process in northwest Tajikistan mountain meadows.		[Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, State Key Lab Desert & Oasis Ecol, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming] Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Dushanbe, Tajikistan; [Mekhrovar, Okhonniyozov; Li, Yao-ming; Fan, Lianlian] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Abdullo, Madaminov; Sino, Yusupov] Inst Bot Physiol & Plant Genet, Acad Sci Republ Tajikistan, Dushanbe, Tajikistan; [Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, State Key Lab Desert & Oasis Ecol, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Fan, Lianlian] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecol & Environm Cent Asia, Urumqi, Peoples R China; [Fan, Lianlian] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:001150746000001		
J	Shaheen, Hamayun; Attique, Arbaz; Riaz, Malik Talha; Manzoor, Muhammad; Khan, Raja Waqar Ahmed; Riaz, Muhammad Tayyib								From biodiversity hotspot to conservation hotspot: assessing distribution, population structure, associated flora and habitat geography of threatened Himalayan Yew in temperate forest ecosystems of Kashmir								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				33	2			553	577		10.1007/s10531-023-02758-w			FEB 2024	2024	The Himalayan Yew (Taxus wallichiana Zucc.) holds a pivotal role in the delicate ecosystems of the moist temperate forests in the Himalayan region, boasting substantial conservation value. The current study was designed to investigate the distribution pattern, community structure, phytosociological attributes, associated flora and conservation of Taxus wallichiana in the temperate forests of the state of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Pakistan. Objectives included the creation of GIS-based maps for a detailed representation of Taxus wallichiana distribution in AJK and the identification of its highly fragmented and rapidly dwindling habitats for strategic conservation management. Data was meticulously gathered from 51 temperate forest sites across 6 districts in AJK using quadrate-based systematic sampling. Site selection was based on thorough preliminary surveys of Yew populations in the region. Yew populations at the sampled sites exhibited an average stem density of 371 trees/ha with average basal area cover of 132.12 cm. The species showed extremely low regeneration of 3.35/ha. Floristic inventory revealed a total of 154 plant species belonging to 113 Genera and 50 families as associated flora in the Taxus wallichiana populations. The average values of Simpson's diversity index were recorded as 0.97, Shannon's Diversity as 3.71, Menhinick's species richness as 1.21, Pielou's species evenness as 2.13 whereas community maturity index was 54.26%. Analysis of Life form and Leaf size classes showed that herbaceous Hemicryptophytic microphyllous taxa dominated the local flora. GIS analysis revealed North Facing slopes with moderate degree of steepness and having concave curvature in the moist temperate forest zone as the main habitat of the Taxus wallichiana. Digital Elevation Model (DEM) showed that the species was distributed in an altitudinal range of 1900-2800 m. Significant levels of deforestation recorded as 3.18 Yew stumps/ha synchronized with over grazing and erosion in the study area posing serious threat to the Taxus populations which can lead to local extinction of this species. Through GIS analysis, we precisely mapped both robust and imperiled Taxus populations in AJK, offering vital insights for the conservation management of this species. Cluster Analysis and Pearson's correlation revealed significant associations among the investigated variables and sampling sites. We urgently recommend immediate conservation measures to safeguard the imperiled Yew populations in the AJK region.		[Shaheen, Hamayun; Attique, Arbaz; Manzoor, Muhammad; Khan, Raja Waqar Ahmed] Univ Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Dept Bot, Muzaffarabad 13100, Pakistan; [Riaz, Malik Talha; Riaz, Muhammad Tayyib] Univ Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Inst Geol, Muzaffarabad 13100, Pakistan; [Shaheen, Hamayun] Univ Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Dept Bot, Muzaffarabad 13100, Pakistan								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:001137584200001		
J	Llanquin-Rosas, Francisco; Carcamo-Tejer, Violeta; Vila Pinto, Irma; Saez-Arteaga, Alberto; Correa-Araneda, Francisco; Guerrero-Jimenez, Claudia Jimena								Benthic macroinvertebrates community structure and physical-chemical characteristics at Lauca River Basin high altitude wetlands, Altiplano, Chile								LIMNETICA				43	1			129	144		10.23818/limn.43.09			2024	2024	High Andean freshwater ecosystems are highly threatened by scarce water availability, species invasion, and global climate change, so generating knowledge about their ecological characteristics is extremely important for conservation decision-making. In this work, the seasonal variations and relationships between physico-chemical variables and the structure and composition of the macroinvertebrate community were analyzed considering "season", "type of ecosystem" and "site" factors. Five sites of representative ecosystems at Lauca River Basin of the Chilean Altiplano were sampled, two of them lentic and three lotic. Two field-sampling periods within a year according to the pre- and post-rain seasons characteristic of the Altiplano climate were considered. Thirty-five taxa were identified, and it was observed that the taxa Orthocladiinae, Austrelmis sp., Hyallela cf kochi, Podonominae and Helicopsychidae were indicator taxa that contributed the most to differences among sites or ecosystems (>= 10 %.). No significant differences were found in the alpha diversity indicators used, except for some abundance values and Pielou's Evenness index (J '), which varied significantly between lotic and lentic systems. The results of the ordination analysis showed a significant differentiation considering physical and chemical variables and macroinvertebrates assemblages that responded to "sites" (ANOSIM R Global = 0.64, p = 0.001) and "type of ecosystem" factors (ANOSIM R Global = 0.31, p = 0.02). The "season" factor was not statistically significant to explain the variability of biological data (ANOSIM R Global = -0.003, p = 0.47) and was slight and marginally significant with the physical and chemical data (ANOSIM R Global = 0.1, p = 0.04). In addition, the linear redundancy analysis (RDA) showed that physico-chemical variables related to hardness, temperature, phosphorous, and nitrogen explained most of the variance in the biological data (the first two canonical axes RDA1 and RDA2 explained 45.23 % of the total variation, p = 0.004). These results support the relevance of local conditions for high altitude wetlands and how those environmental characteristics can be reflected in the macroinvertebrate assemblages that inhabit them.		[Llanquin-Rosas, Francisco; Carcamo-Tejer, Violeta; Vila Pinto, Irma] Univ Chile, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Ecol, Santiago 3425, Chile; [Saez-Arteaga, Alberto] Univ Catolica Temuco, Fac Recursos Nat, Ctr Invest Innovac & Creac UCT CIIC UCT, Dept Ciencias Agr & Acuicolas, Av Rudecindo Ortega 02950, Temuco, Chile; [Correa-Araneda, Francisco] Univ Autonoma Chile, Inst Iberoamer Desarrollo Sostenible IIDS, Unidad Cambio Climat & Medio Ambiente, Ave Alemania 01090, Temuco, Region De La Ar, Chile; [Guerrero-Jimenez, Claudia Jimena] Univ Autonoma Chile, Inst Ciencias Biomed, Ave Alemania 01090, Temuco, Chile; [Guerrero-Jimenez, Claudia Jimena] Univ Autonoma Chile, Inst Ciencias Biomed, Ave Alemania 01090, Temuco, Chile								0							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001153331600009		
J	Wang, Li; Liu, Jiarui; Bao, Zhen; Ma, Xufa; Shen, Hong; Chen, Jun; Xie, Ping								Predictable shifts in diversity and ecosystem function in phytoplankton and zooplankton communities along thermocline stratification intensity continua								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				912						168981	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.168981			FEB 20 2024	2024	Thermocline stratification is a global threat to water quality in drinking water reservoirs, though its underlying mechanisms are not clear. The impacts of thermocline stratification intensity on biodiversity-ecosystem relationships were assessed using phytoplankton and zooplankton indicators from four stages of stratification in Lake Qiandaohu. There were significant differences in biomass, species diversity, and resource use efficiency (RUEpp = phytoplankton biomass/total phosphorus) for phytoplankton between continuous stratification and mixing periods, but only in FDis and RaoQ diversity indices for zooplankton. Phytoplankton species diversity and RUE were higher in the formative and stable periods, while zooplankton species diversity and zooplankton biomass/phytoplankton biomass (RUEzp) were lower. When combining the data from the four periods, a negative linear pattern was found between phytoplankton Simpson's, functional dispersion (FDis), and Rao's Quadratic (RaoQ) diversity indices, and thermocline depth (TD). Only zooplankton FDis and RaoQ diversity indices were significantly positively related to TD. Phytoplankton RUE was significantly negatively related only to its Pielou's evenness (J) diversity, while zooplankton RUE was significantly negatively related to its J, FDis, and RaoQ diversity indices. The results of structural equation models (SEMs) showed that the R2 of RUE for		[Wang, Li; Liu, Jiarui; Shen, Hong; Chen, Jun; Xie, Ping] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol, Donghu Expt Stn Lake Ecosyst, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China; [Wang, Li; Ma, Xufa] Huazhong Agr Univ, Coll Fisheries, Wuhan 430070, Peoples R China; [Bao, Zhen] Hangzhou Ecol Environm Monitoring Ctr Zhejiang, Hangzhou 31000, Peoples R China; [Xie, Ping] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol, Donghu Expt Stn Lake Ecosyst, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001138875900001		
J	Gad, Mahmoud; Cao, Meixian; Qin, Dan; Sun, Qian; Yu, Chang-Ping; Hu, Anyi								Development, validation, and application of a microbial community-based index of biotic integrity for assessing the ecological status of a peri-urban watershed in China								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				910						168659	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.168659			FEB 1 2024	2024	This study represents the pioneering effort in employing 16S rRNA-bacteria and 18S rRNA-microeukaryotes to construct the microbial community-based index of biotic integrity (MC-IBI) for assessing the ecological health of riverine ecosystems. The MC-IBI was developed, validated, and implemented using water samples from the Changle River watershed, encompassing both wet and dry seasons. A total of 205 metrics, containing microbial diversity, composition, pollution tolerance/sensitivity, and functional categories, were selected as candidates for evaluation. Following a rigorous screening process, five core metrics were identified as key indicators, namely Pielou's evenness of microeukaryotes, %Cryptophyceae, %Proteobacteria, %Oxyphotobacteria, and % 16S rRNA gene-human pathogens. Moreover, redundancy analysis revealed three metrics (i.e., Pielou's evenness, % 16S rRNA gene-human pathogens, and % Proteobacteria) were positively correlated with impairment conditions. In contrast, two metrics (i.e., %Oxyphotobacteria and %Cryptophyceae) were associated positively with reference conditions. Notably, the developed MC-IBI demonstrates clear discrimination between reference and impaired sites and significantly correlates with environmental parameters and land use patterns. A path model analysis revealed that land use patterns (i.e., build-up land, cropland) negatively impacted the MC-IBI scores. The application of the MC-IBI method yielded an assessment of the ecological conditions at the 73 sampling locations within the Changle River watershed, assigning them into categories of "Very good" (4.1 %), "Good" (4.1 %), "Moderate" (5.5 %), "Poor" (21.9 %), and "Very poor" (64.4 %). This bioassessment framework presents an innovative approach toward the preservation, maintenance, and management of riverine ecosystems.		[Gad, Mahmoud; Cao, Meixian; Qin, Dan; Sun, Qian; Yu, Chang-Ping; Hu, Anyi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Urban Environm, CAS Key Lab Urban Pollutant Convers, Xiamen 361021, Peoples R China; [Gad, Mahmoud; Cao, Meixian; Qin, Dan; Sun, Qian; Hu, Anyi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Urban Environm, Fujian Key Lab Watershed Ecol, Xiamen 361021, Peoples R China; [Gad, Mahmoud] Natl Res Ctr, Water Pollut Res Dept, Giza 12622, Egypt; [Cao, Meixian; Hu, Anyi] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anyi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Urban Environm, CAS Key Lab Urban Pollutant Convers, Xiamen 361021, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001124403100001		
J	Das, Sarita Kumari; Srinivasan, Nagesh Talagunda; Sarang, Niranjan; Das, Sudhir Kumar; Jawahar, Abraham Thangapalam; Canciyal, Johnson; Panda, Kamalesh								Effect of environmental drivers of fish assemblage and diversity patterns in temporal scale in Mongra Reservoir: A case study from one of the tributaries of Mahanadi Basin, Central India								ECOHYDROLOGY				16	8						10.1002/eco.2599			DEC 2023	2023	Influence of seasonal variations in environmental parameters on fish assemblage and species diversity patterns was studied in a tropical reservoir of Central India during March 2021 to February 2022. A total of 41 species belonging to 7 orders, 15 families and 29 genera were recorded with highest diversity during post-monsoon season compared to the pre-monsoon season and monsoon season. The fish abundance similarity between the monsoon and post-monsoon reached a maximum of 89%. Seasonal variations in the mean species abundance, Simpson dominance index, Shannon diversity index, Pielou's evenness index and Margalef's richness index were determined. One-way ANOVA revealed a significant difference (P < 0.05) at the temporal scale. There was a significant seasonal difference in species abundance (P = 0.0006) and evenness index (P = 0.02) among the diversity indices. During the study period, three 'vulnerable' species, three 'near threatened' species and two 'endangered' species were caught. Carnivore dominance was evident throughout the year in the trophic guild of fishes. The Pearson correlation test revealed that water pH, dissolved oxygen, sediment organic carbon and clay percentage were positively correlated to all four diversity indices. Simpson and Margalef species richness diversity indices were positively correlated to sediment pH. Fish abundance was positively associated with sediment pH, silt, phosphorus and nitrogen content. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to investigate the relationships between fish assemblages and environmental conditions. Among the 19 physicochemical parameters, nine (dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, conductivity, transparency, hardness, phosphate and chlorophyll-a, sediment nitrogen and phosphorus) characteristics were shown to be statistically significant (P < 0.05) in determining fish diversity. Dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, conductivity, transparency, hardness, phosphate and chlorophyll-a of water and sediment nitrogen and phosphorus qualities were the key factors for the species abundance. The reservoir boasts a diverse fish population that allows multi-species fishing and generates revenue for numerous local fishers. Fish habitats should be protected in order to maintain diversity and long-term ecological benefits.		[Das, Sarita Kumari; Srinivasan, Nagesh Talagunda; Das, Sudhir Kumar] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Fisheries Resource Management, Kolkata 700037, India; [Sarang, Niranjan; Panda, Kamalesh] DSVC Kamdhenu Vishwavidyalaya, Coll Fisheries, Durg, Chhattisgarh, India; [Jawahar, Abraham Thangapalam] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Aquat Anim Hlth, Kolkata, India; [Canciyal, Johnson] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Das, Sarita Kumari] West Bengal Univ Anim & Fishery Sci, Fac Fishery, Dept Fisheries Resource Management, Kolkata 700037, India								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001103554900001		
J	Imran, Uzma; Ullah, Asmat; Mahar, Rasool Bux; Shaikh, Kaleemullah; Khokhar, Waheed Ali; Weidhaas, Jennifer								An integrated approach for evaluating freshwater ecosystems under the influence of high salinity: a case study of Manchar Lake in Pakistan								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	11					1340	10.1007/s10661-023-11917-z			NOV 2023	2023	Manchar Lake, Pakistan's biggest lake in the arid zone, faces human-induced salinity issues. This study investigated its effects on the multifaceted ecosystem services, including serving as a source of drinking and irrigation water and aquatic health through assessing fish diversity and characteristics. Analyses of 189 water samples from 21 sites revealed spatiotemporal variations in major ions contributing to lake water salinity. The study assessed water suitability for drinking and agriculture using the water quality index (WQI), sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), magnesium hazard (MH), sodium percent (Na%), and Kelly's ratio (KR). The WQI, ranging from 141 to 408, indicated that the lake water was unfit for drinking. In some seasons, such as the pre-monsoon period, the lake water was deemed unsuitable for irrigation due to high SAR values (18 +/- 4 g/L, average +/- standard deviation), consistently rising MH values exceeding 66 in all seasons and elevated sodium percentages surpassing 66% in both the pre-monsoon and monsoon seasons. The KR remained acceptable (averaging 0.8 to 2.5) in all seasons. Fish health in highly saline conditions was assessed using data from interviews, focus group discussions, and fish sampling (1684 fish from 10 sites). Results depicted that high salt contamination severely impacted fish length and weight. The study found low richness (Simpson's biodiversity: 0.697 and Shannon Weaver: 1.51) and evenness (Pielou's index: 0.48) among the fish populations. Since 1998, Manchar Lake has seen a decline in fish varieties from 32 to 23, with changes in fish species' feeding habits. To improve lake water quality, the study recommends diverting saline water to the sea before and after the monsoon season while utilizing freshwater from alternative sources to fill any water deficit.		[Imran, Uzma; Ullah, Asmat; Mahar, Rasool Bux; Khokhar, Waheed Ali] Mehran Univ Engn & Technol, US Pakistan Ctr Adv Studies Water, Jamshoro 76062, Sindh, Pakistan; [Shaikh, Kaleemullah] Balochistan Univ Informat Technol Engn & Managemen, Fac Engn, Quetta, Balochistan, Pakistan; [Weidhaas, Jennifer] Univ Utah, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, 201 Presidents Circle,Room 201, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Imran, Uzma] Mehran Univ Engn & Technol, US Pakistan Ctr Adv Studies Water, Jamshoro 76062, Sindh, Pakistan								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001100117700005		
J	Li, Shengnan; Li, Zhanxin; Peng, Hua; Yu, Li; Wang, Min; Shen, Zhongyuan; Gu, Qianhong								Distinct bacterial communities associated with photosynthetic picoeukaryotes in Lake Dongting throughout the seasonal cycle as revealed by flow cytometry sorting								AQUATIC MICROBIAL ECOLOGY				89				157	168		10.3354/ame02004			OCT 26 2023	2023	Associations and interactions between bacteria and phytoplankton are prevalent in aquatic systems. However, the coexistence of bacteria with the smallest phytoplankton groups is mostly unknown. Here, the associated bacteria (AB) of photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs) in the Yangtze-connected Lake Dongting were studied using flow cytometry sorting combined with high-throughput sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene throughout the seasonal cycle. Bacteria in the corresponding whole water (WWB) were also investigated for comparison. Our results revealed a distinct bacterial community of AB compared to WWB. The taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity indices, as well as the richness, of AB were significantly lower than those of WWB; however, AB showed higher Pielou's evenness. Proteobacteria (53.8%) was the most abundant phylum in AB, whereas Actinobacteria was predominant in WWB (36.0%). Several abundant clades, including Flavobacterium, Pseudomonas, Rheinheimera, Novosphingobium, and Sphingomonas, were significantly enriched in AB. Functional prediction analysis identified 116 KEGG pathways differing significantly between AB and WWB. Particularly, functional properties involved in cellular processes (mainly bacterial chemotaxis), environmental information processing, organismal systems and xenobiotics biodegradation and metabolism were greatly enriched in AB. Total nitrogen, temperature and chlorophyll a correlated significantly with the community dissimilarity between AB and WWB. Our results shed new light on the bacterial diversity and function associated with the smallest phytoplankton.		[Li, Shengnan; Li, Zhanxin; Wang, Min; Shen, Zhongyuan; Gu, Qianhong] Hunan Normal Univ, Coll Life Sciences, State Key Lab Dev Biol Freshwater Fish, Changsha 410081, Peoples R China; [Peng, Hua] Hunan Acad Agr Sci, Hunan Inst Agroenvironm & Ecol, Changsha 410125, Peoples R China; [Yu, Li] Anhui Jianzhu Univ, Sch Environm & Energy Engn, Hefei 230601, Peoples R China; [Yu, Li] Anhui Prov Key Lab Environm Pollut Control & Reso, Hefei 23060, Peoples R China; [Gu, Qianhong] Hunan Normal Univ, Coll Life Sciences, State Key Lab Dev Biol Freshwater Fish, Changsha 410081, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Microbiology	WOS:001115975600001		
J	Rahman, Inayat Ur; Hart, Robbie E.; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Bussmann, Rainer W.; Ijaz, Farhana; Khan, Muazzam Ali; Ali, Hamid; Rahman, Siddiq Ur; Hashem, Abeer; Abd-Allah, Elsayed Fathi; Sher, Ali; Calixto, Eduardo Soares								Vegetation-environment interactions: plant species distribution and community assembly in mixed coniferous forests of Northwestern Himalayas								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				13	1					17228	10.1038/s41598-023-42272-1			OCT 11 2023	2023	One of the main goals of ecological studies is to disentangle the dynamics that underlie the spatiotemporal distribution of biodiversity and further functions of the ecosystem. However, due to many ecological and geopolitical reasons, many remote areas with high plant species diversity have not been assessed using newly based analytical approaches for vegetation characterization. Here, we classified and characterized different vegetation types (i.e., major plant communities) based on indicator species and on the influence of different environmental gradients in the Himalayan mixed coniferous forest, Pakistan. For that, we addressed the following questions: Does the vegetation composition of the Himalayan mixed coniferous forest correlate with climatic, topographic, geographic, and edaphic variables? Is it possible to identify plant communities through indicator species in relation to environmental gradients using multivariate approaches? Can this multivariate be helpful for conservation planning? During four consecutive years we assessed the vegetation composition and environmental variables (21 variables divided in geographic, climatic, topographic, and edaphic groups) of 156 50 m-trasects between an elevation of 2000-4000 m. Using newly based analytical approaches for community characterization, we found a total of 218 plant species clustered into four plant communities with the influence of environmental gradients. The highest index of similarity was recorded between Pinus-Cedrus-Viburnum (PCV) and Viburnum-Pinus-Abies (VPA) communities, and the highest index of dissimilarity was recorded between PCV and Abies-Juniperus-Picea (AJP) communities. Among these four communities, highest number of plant species (156 species) was recorded in PCV, maximum alpha diversity (H'=3.68) was reported in VPA, highest Simpson index (0.961) and Pielou's evenness (0.862) were reported in VPA and AJP. The edaphic gradients (i.e., organic matter, phosphorous, pH and soil texture) and climatic factors (temperature, humidity) were the strongest environmental gradients that were responsible for structuring and hosting the diverse plant communities in mixed coniferous forest. Finally, the Himalayan mixed coniferous structure is more influenced by the spatial turnover beta-diversity process (beta sim) than by the species loss (nestedness-resultant, beta sne). Our analysis of the vegetation structure along the environmental gradient in the Himalayan mixed coniferous forest supported by sophisticated analytical approaches reveled indicator species groups, which are associated to specific microclimatic zones (i.e., vegetation communities). Within this focus, we side with the view that these results can support conservation planning and management for similar and different areas providing mitigating and preventive measures to reduce potential negative impacts, such as anthropic and climatic.		[Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Ijaz, Farhana] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Khyber Pakhtunk, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur; Hart, Robbie E.] Missouri Bot Garden, William L Brown Ctr, POB 299, St Louis, MO 63166 USA; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Khushal Khan Khattak Univ, Dept Bot, Karak 27200, KP, Pakistan; [Bussmann, Rainer W.] Ilia State Univ, Inst Bot, Dept Ethnobot, 1 Bot St, Tbilisi 0105, Georgia; [Bussmann, Rainer W.] State Museum Nat Hist, Dept Bot, Karlsruhe, Germany; [Khan, Muazzam Ali] Bacha Khan Univ, Dept Bot, Charsadda 24460, KP, Pakistan; [Ali, Hamid] Hazara Univ, Dept Biotechnol & Genet Engn, Mansehra 21300, KP, Pakistan; [Rahman, Siddiq Ur] Khushal Khan Khattak Univ, Dept Comp Sci & Bioinformat, Karak 27200, KP, Pakistan; [Hashem, Abeer] King Saud Univ, Bot & Microbiol Dept, Coll Sci, POB 2460, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Abd-Allah, Elsayed Fathi] King Saud Univ, Coll Food & Agr Sci, Dept Plant Protect, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Sher, Ali] Bacha Khan Univ, Dept Agr, Charsadda, KP, Pakistan; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] UMSL, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO USA; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] Univ Florida, Entomol & Nematol Dept, Gainesville, FL USA; [Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Khyber Pakhtunk, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Missouri Bot Garden, William L Brown Ctr, POB 299, St Louis, MO 63166 USA; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Khushal Khan Khattak Univ, Dept Bot, Karak 27200, KP, Pakistan								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001116585900004		
J	Maiphae, Supiyanit; Saetang, Thanida; Jantawong, Natthida; Wongkamhaeng, Koraon; Piyasaengthong, Narisara								Diversity of Zooplankton in the Rice Fields in Suphan Buri Province, Thailand, with a New Record of Cyclopoid Copepod								DIVERSITY-BASEL				15	10					1054	10.3390/d15101054			OCT 2023	2023	Rice fields are dynamic ecosystems with complex niche structures for organisms, and they have been hypothesised to have high biodiversity. Accordingly, in this study, the diversity of zooplankton in rice fields in Suphan Buri Province, a large area of rice plantations in the central region of Thailand, was examined. A total of 100 species, including 52 rotifers, 18 cladocerans, and 30 copepods, were recorded, including Mesocyclops kayi, which was a new record in Thailand. A high Simpson's diversity index (0.63) and a low Pielou's species evenness index (0.02) confirmed various potential niches for zooplankton in this ecosystem, leading to a low Jaccard similarity index both among the current rice fields and those in other regions. Moreover, the species richness estimators suggested that more species are expected to be discovered in the rice fields. Rotifer and copepod communities are influenced by local environmental variables, including dissolved oxygen, salinity, conductivity, and chlorophyll a. The results of this study fill a gap in the knowledge regarding the diversity and ecology of zooplankton in rice fields. However, further research is needed to fully comprehend the function of this ecosystem and the actual diversity in Thailand.		[Maiphae, Supiyanit; Saetang, Thanida; Jantawong, Natthida; Wongkamhaeng, Koraon; Piyasaengthong, Narisara] Kasetsart Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Bangkok 10900, Thailand; [Maiphae, Supiyanit; Saetang, Thanida] Kasetsart Univ, Biodivers Ctr, Bangkok 10900, Thailand; [Maiphae, Supiyanit] Kasetsart Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Bangkok 10900, Thailand; [Maiphae, Supiyanit] Kasetsart Univ, Biodivers Ctr, Bangkok 10900, Thailand								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:001096630200001		
J	Martelli, Luca; Fornasiero, Diletta; Scarton, Francesco; Spada, Arianna; Scolamacchia, Francesca; Manca, Grazia; Mulatti, Paolo								Study of the Interface between Wild Bird Populations and Poultry and Their Potential Role in the Spread of Avian Influenza								MICROORGANISMS				11	10					2601	10.3390/microorganisms11102601			OCT 2023	2023	Water birds play a crucial role in disseminating and amplifying avian influenza viruses (AIVs) in the environment. However, they may have limited interactions with domestic facilities, raising the hypothesis that other wild birds may play the bridging role in introducing AIVs into poultry. An ornithocoenosis study, based on census-transect and camera-trapping methods, was conducted in 2019 in ten poultry premises in northeast Italy to characterize the bird communities and envisage the species that might act as bridge hosts for AIVs. The data collected were explored through a series of multivariate analyses (correspondence analysis and non-metric multidimensional scaling), and biodiversity indices (observed and estimated richness, Shannon entropy and Pielou's evenness). The analyses revealed a high level of complexity in the ornithic population, with 147 censused species, and significant qualitative and quantitative differences in wild bird species composition, both in space and in time. Among these, only a few were observed in close proximity to the farm premises (i.e., Magpies, Blackbirds, Cattle Egrets, Pheasants, Eurasian Collared Doves, and Wood Pigeons), thus suggesting their potential role in spilling over AIVs to poultry; contrarily, waterfowls appeared to be scarcely inclined to close visits, especially during autumn and winter seasons. These findings stress the importance of ongoing research on the wild-domestic bird interface, advocating for a wider range of species to be considered in AIVs surveillance and prevention programs.		[Martelli, Luca; Fornasiero, Diletta; Scolamacchia, Francesca; Manca, Grazia; Mulatti, Paolo] Ist Zooprofilatt Sperimentale Venezie, I-35020 Legnaro, Italy; [Scarton, Francesco; Spada, Arianna] SELC Soc Coop, I-30175 Venice, Italy; [Fornasiero, Diletta; Mulatti, Paolo] Ist Zooprofilatt Sperimentale Venezie, I-35020 Legnaro, Italy								0							Microbiology	WOS:001089427400001		
J	Nithya, P.; Dhanalakshmi, B.; Santhanam, P.								Ecology of Biofouling Zooplankton in Chinnamuttom Fishing Harbor, Southeast Coast of India								JOURNAL OF WATER CHEMISTRY AND TECHNOLOGY				45	5			487	495		10.3103/S1063455X23050089			OCT 2023	2023	The oceans are changing on a global scale. Zooplankton of the marine ecosystem are microscopic myriads of diverse, floating and drifting animal-like organisms found either on or near the surface of water bodies. Zooplankton samples were collected from the surface water and substratum of the ship hull during the study period from June 2015 to May 2016. Population density ranged from 68 000 to 194 000 cells/L was recorded in the water and substratum of the ship hull. Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (H') values ranged from 4.97 to 5.57 (bits/ind) at station I and station II. Simpson's richness ranged from 0.967 and 0.977 at station I and station II. Pielou's evenness index (J') ranged from 0.976 to 0.994 at station I and station II, respectively. In total, 56 and 48 zooplankton species were recorded in water and substratum of the ship hull in the Chinnamuttom harbor water, respectively. Among the recorded zooplankton, calanoid copepod was found to be dominant followed by ciliata, cyclopoida, harpacticoida, polychaeta, amphipoda and barnacle nauplii in water samples, whereas in substratum samples the Harpacticoid copepod was predominant followed by ciliata, cyclopoida, calanoida, polychaeta, amphipoda and barnacle nauplii. Among the estimated zooplankton, the copepods were found to be dominant throughout the year in the selected site and seasons with appreciable numbers.		[Nithya, P.] Vivekanandha Coll Arts & Sci Women, PG & Res Dept Zool, Tiruchengode 637205, Tamil Nadu, India; [Dhanalakshmi, B.] Nirmala Coll Women, Res Dept Zool, Coimbatore 641018, Tamil Nadu, India; [Santhanam, P.] Bharathidasan Univ, Sch Marine Sci, Dept Marine Sci, Tiruchirappalli 620024, Tamil Nadu, India; [Nithya, P.] Vivekanandha Coll Arts & Sci Women, PG & Res Dept Zool, Tiruchengode 637205, Tamil Nadu, India								0							Chemistry, Applied; Chemistry, Analytical; Chemistry, Physical	WOS:001070925300010		
J	Murugan, R.; Ananthan, G.; Balachandar, K.; Sathiskumar, R. S.; Praveena, V.								Seasonal distribution of solitary and colonial benthic ascidians (Chordata) with ecological gradients in and around Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India								MARINE ECOLOGY-AN EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE				44	6						10.1111/maec.12771			DEC 2023	2023	Ascidians are rapidly emerging biofouling organisms that generally occur on the natural and artificial substratum of the marine environment. However, very few studies have been reported on their species diversity and distribution patterns. This present investigation focuses on the seasonal impact on ascidians diversity. The distributions of ascidians were recorded by the collection of samples in six sampling stations from Andaman and Nicobar Islands. A total of 43 species of ascidians (32 colonial, 11 solitary) were recorded and most of the species are under the Didemnidae family. Various diversity indexes were utilized to examine the diversity, richness and evenness of species and to look at the assorted variety among tests and their likeness regarding species composition. The greatest (3.227) individuals were observed during summer season in Pigeon Island and the lowest (2.063) number of species were recorded during the monsoon season in Haddowharf harbour. The Margalef richness (d) fluctuated between in the range of 2.033 and 5.53 during the monsoon in Haddowharf harbour and Carbyns Cove beach in summer seasons. The Pielou's evenness record (J') changed from 0.7409 to 0.9713. Diversity indexes were recorded as followed the order of 0.9642, 0.9552, 0.9482 and 0.9292 at Carbyns Cove shoreline, Burmanella, Pigeon Island and Campbell Bay individually during summer season. Present findings in the cluster examination uncovered that the species at various stations have framed four gatherings. Most elevated species rates were spread in summer. Field observation shows that species distribution is able to tolerate temperature ranges of 26.9-30.3 degrees C and salinity of 32.1-34.64 ppt. Occasional examples of space occupation by colonial ascidians corresponded with seasonal changes in seawater temperature and salinity.		[Murugan, R.; Ananthan, G.; Balachandar, K.; Sathiskumar, R. S.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai, India; [Praveena, V.] Bharathidasan Univ, Dept Zool, Trichy, India; [Ananthan, G.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ananthan, G.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								0							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001066230200001		
J	Cui, Ge; Chen, Juan; Wang, Chao; Wang, Peifang; Zhang, Bo; Gao, Han; Fu, Rui								Planktonic archaea reveal stronger dispersal limitation and more network connectivity than planktonic bacteria in the Jinsha River of southwestern China								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				68	11			1995	2010		10.1111/fwb.14170			NOV 2023	2023	Planktonic archaea and bacteria play important roles in biogeochemical cycling, but their biogeographical patterns and underlying ecological processes remain poorly understood, particularly in large-scale rivers.We collected 43 water samples covering a 2279 km reach of the Jinsha River, one of the largest rivers in southwest China, and performed high-throughput sequencing analysis on planktonic archaeal and bacterial communities. Partial Mantel analysis and neutral model were used to assess the factors influencing microbial distributions. The associations among different microbial species and their geographical distribution patterns were linked through co-occurrence networks, and the putative key taxa in the archaeal and bacterial networks were analysed.The Shannon index of both archaeal and bacterial communities was highest in the midstream reach. The Pielou's evenness of archaea did not vary among the three reaches, whereas those of bacteria increased from upstream to downstream. The archaeal and bacterial community compositions were significantly different in the three reaches, but the differences among the bacterial communities were greater than among the archaeal communities.Both dispersal limitation and environmental selection affected the community compositions of the archaea and bacteria, but dispersal limitation was the most influential factor. Compared to archaea, bacteria were less affected by dispersal limitation and more by environmental selection.The co-occurrence network analysis demonstrated that, compared with the bacterial network of all sites, the archaeal network with larger graph density had higher connectivity and complexity, but a lower proportion of negative correlations. The putative key taxa belonged to Nitrososphaeraceae and Candidatus_Nitrocosmicus from the archaeal community, and Hydrogenophaga and Sphingorhabdus from the bacterial community.Taken together, these findings demonstrated that the planktonic archaea were more dispersal-limited and showed more network connectivity than the planktonic bacteria in the Jinsha River. This study enhances our understanding of the biogeographical distribution patterns and underlying ecological processes of planktonic microorganisms over large-scale freshwater systems.		[Cui, Ge; Chen, Juan; Wang, Chao; Wang, Peifang; Zhang, Bo; Gao, Han] Hohai Univ, Minist Educ, Key Lab Integrated Regulat & Resource, Coll Environm,Dept Shallow Lakes, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Fu, Rui] Kunming Engn Corp Ltd, Kunming, Peoples R China; [Chen, Juan] Hohai Univ, Coll Environm, Xikang Rd 1, Nanjing 210098, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Chen, Juan] Hohai Univ, Coll Environm, Xikang Rd 1, Nanjing 210098, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001077094400001		
J	Farukuzzaman, Md.; Sultana, Tasnim; Paray, Bilal Ahamad; Arai, Takaomi; Hossain, M. Belal								Ecological habitat quality assessment of a highly urbanized estuary using macroinvertebrate community diversity and structure								REGIONAL STUDIES IN MARINE SCIENCE				66						103149	10.1016/j.rsma.2023.103149			DEC 15 2023	2023	Urban estuaries are subject to a variety of ecological crises caused by humans as a result of rising shorebased human activities. In this study, environmental variables, community composition, structure and diversity indices of benthic macroinvertebrate were studied to assess the ecological health status of an urbanized estuary, Karnaphuli river estuary. The results revealed that dissolved oxygen (DO) was very low, and organic matter was much higher in the estuary. There were significant (p < 0.05) differences among the environmental variables across the sites. 31 taxa were identified yielding a total of 49167 Ind./m(2) with overall mean density (+/- SD) of 159 (+/- 327) Ind./m(2). Annelida (61.8%) were the most abundant taxonomic group followed by Polychaeta (34.88%) and Oligochaeta (26.92%). The high abundance of pollution indicator taxa (Tubificidae, Capitellidae) and low abundance of pollution sensitive taxa (Lumbrinidae, Sabellidae, Maldanidae, Nephtyide) indicated detrimental ecological condition. The values of Shannon-Wiener diversity index (1.95-2.63), Pielou ' s evenness index (0.60-0.81) and the Margalef diversity index (1.03-2.12) suggested moderate pollution status with extremely low species richness and low abundance in polluted areas. A PERMANOVA showed significant differences in faunal assemblages (F = 2.189, p < 0.001) among sites. Species abundance and density were higher (p = 0.32) at the upper estuary (where pH and salinity were low) and reduced in the middle and lower portion of the estuary which reflected the gradient of pollution level. Cluster analysis (CA) demarcated three distinct communities in terms of species similarity. SIMPER identified the highest average dissimilarity value (66.66%) across all the stations. The Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) results suggested benthic macroinvertebrate community was influenced by environmental variables, for instance, salinity, dissolve oxygen, soil and water pH, total dissolved solids, and sediment texture. (c) 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Farukuzzaman, Md.; Sultana, Tasnim; Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Noakhali 3814, Bangladesh; [Paray, Bilal Ahamad] King Saud Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Zool, POB 2455, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia; [Arai, Takaomi] Univ Brunei Darussalam, Fac Sci, Environm & Life Sci Programme, Jalan Tungku Link, BE-1410 Gadong, Brunei; [Hossain, M. Belal] Griffith Univ, Sch Engn & Built Environm, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia; [Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Noakhali 3814, Bangladesh								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:001067116900001		
J	Plangklang, Nattaporn; Athibai, Sujeephon								Viability of zooplankton resting eggs in rice field sediment after pesticide applications								BIODIVERSITY DATA JOURNAL				11						e106418	10.3897/BDJ.11.e106418			AUG 14 2023	2023	Many herbicide products are commonly used in agricultural areas to prevent and eliminate weeds. Contamination from these toxicants in water might affect aquatic organisms not only in the active stage, but also in the diapause stage. To test the effect of herbicide on the resting eggs of zooplankton, we prepared two rice fields: one field without the application of pesticides (RF-NPA) and one with the application of pesticides (RF-PA) in a sampling year. We conducted a hatching experiment for 30 days. Twenty-four taxa of zooplankton were found. Sixteen species of these were rotifers, seven species were cladocerans and one taxon was an unidentified nauplius copepod. The species richness of zooplankton between RF-NPA (17 taxa) and RF-PA (16 taxa) was close, but species compositions between RF-NPA and RF-PA were different, indicated by the similarity index of 0.545. Lecanidae was the most diverse family of rotifers in both rice fields with nine species, while Chydoridae was the most diverse family of cladocerans (four species). The total abundance of zooplankton of RF-NPA was higher than RF-PA with 1,897 and 1,286 individuals, respectively. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H ' ) and Pielou's evenness (J) in RF-NPA were higher than in RF-PA. The high species richness of zooplankton in both rice fields occurred on days 18 to 30. On the other hand, the highest abundance was community composition between RF-NPA and RF-PA (p < 0.05; ANOSIM test). According		[Plangklang, Nattaporn; Athibai, Sujeephon] Khon Kaen Univ, Dept Biol, Khon Kaen, Thailand; [Plangklang, Nattaporn; Athibai, Sujeephon] Khon Kaen Univ, Fac Sci, Appl Taxon Res Ctr, Khon Kaen, Thailand; [Athibai, Sujeephon] Khon Kaen Univ, Dept Biol, Khon Kaen, Thailand; [Athibai, Sujeephon] Khon Kaen Univ, Fac Sci, Appl Taxon Res Ctr, Khon Kaen, Thailand								1							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:001074489400001		
J	Chen, Qian; Li, Dengwu; Luo, Na; Yang, Jinyan								Differences in <i>Juniperus przewalskii</i> Rhizosphere Microbiomes across Age Classes: Community Diversity and Assembly								MICROORGANISMS				11	8					2094	10.3390/microorganisms11082094			AUG 2023	2023	Evidence shows that biotic and abiotic factors have apparent diversity at different forest ages, leading to changes in rhizosphere microbiomes. However, the difference in diversity, cooccurrence pattern, and assembly of the rhizosphere microbial community among the different forest ages is still unclear. A total of 24 Juniperus przewalskii rhizosphere soil samples were selected from four representative age classes, using diameter at breast height (DBH) as a proxy for tree age (age class I: 5 < DBH <= 12.5 cm, age class II: 12.5 < DBH <= 22.5 cm, age class III: 22.5 < DBH <= 32.5 cm, and age class IV: DBH > 32.5 cm), and analyzed the structural characteristics of the soil microbial community by high-throughput amplicon sequencing. With the increase in age class, the microbial community ff-diversity and fi-diversity had an increased trend. The bacterial Shannon index in class II and class III were markedly higher than in class I. From class I to class IV, the relative abundances of dominant phyla such as Actinobacteria and Ascomycota decreased, and the relative abundances of Proteobacteria and Basidiomycota increased in contrast. The complexity and association stability of the bacteria and fungi community network structure increase with forest age. Stochastic processes mediated the assembly of soil bacterial communities, while deterministic processes played a more significant role in the assembly of fungal communities. In addition, the relative importance of deterministic components in the microbial community increased significantly with age class. Random forests suggested that soil pH, plant Shannon-Wiener index (H), and Pielou's evenness index (J) were the most important driving factors of bacterial and fungal community assembly. Overall, these results provide information useful for understanding the generation and maintenance mechanisms of rhizosphere microbial communities across age classes.		[Chen, Qian; Li, Dengwu; Luo, Na; Yang, Jinyan] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Xianyang 712100, Peoples R China; [Li, Dengwu] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Xianyang 712100, Peoples R China								0							Microbiology	WOS:001060825000001		
J	Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar								Eggplant-garlic intercrops reduce the density of <i>Tetranychus urticae</i> on eggplant and improve crop yield								EXPERIMENTAL AND APPLIED ACAROLOGY											10.1007/s10493-023-00821-3				2023	Diversification of cultivation systems plays a critical role in ecosystem functions such as pest control, diversity of beneficial arthropods, and soil fertility. Repellent plants (releasing volatile organic compounds as arthropod repellents and providing alternative prey for natural enemies) may be used in an intercropping system for pest control; however, little is known concerning their relative priority. In this study, the impact of intercropping eggplant (E) (Solanum melongena L.) and garlic (G) (Allium sativum L.) in three designs - with row ratios of 4E:4G, 4E:8G, or 4E:12G - was assessed on the density of the two-spotted spider mite (TSSM) (Tetranychus urticae Koch), the abundance and diversity of predators, and crop yields, compared with the sole crops over two growing seasons of 2019 and 2020. In three intercrops, a significant decrease in the density of TSSM egg and mobile stages was observed compared with the sole eggplant at each growth stage of eggplant. The damage index by TSSM on eggplants was lower in intercrops (8.1-11.5%) compared with sole crop (37.0-40.3%) in the two seasons. The abundance of Stethorus gilvifrons was lower in the three intercrops than in the sole crop on the blooming-initial fruit set and the fruit development stages of eggplant. The density of Orius niger was higher in the three intercrops compared with the sole crop on vegetative growth and flowering to initial fruit set stages of eggplants. The abundance of Chrysoperla carnea was not significant among treatments. Greater values of the Shannon diversity index and the Pielou's evenness index for the construction of TSSM predators were recorded in the three intercrops compared with the sole eggplant over both growing seasons. In addition, a significant improvement in the yield per unit area of eggplant and garlic was obtained in intercrops compared with sole crops. These results indicate intercropping eggplant and garlic was a practical solution for reducing TSSM on eggplant, promoting the abundance of predators, and improving the crop yields of eggplant and garlic compared with the sole crops.		[Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran; [Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran								0							Entomology	WOS:001037352700004		
J	Nisar, Muhammad Atif; Ross, Kirstin E.; Brown, Melissa H.; Bentham, Richard; Xi, James; Hinds, Jason; Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet								The composition of planktonic prokaryotic communities in a hospital building water system depends on both incoming water and flow dynamics								WATER RESEARCH				243						120363	10.1016/j.watres.2023.120363			SEP 1 2023	2023	In recent years, the frequency of nosocomial infections has increased. Hospital water systems support the growth of microbes, especially opportunistic premise plumbing pathogens. In this study, planktonic prokaryotic communities present in water samples taken from hospital showers and hand basins, collected over three different sampling phases, were characterized by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Significant differences in the abundance of various prokaryotic taxa were found through univariate and multivariate analysis. Overall, the prokaryotic communities of hospital water were taxonomically diverse and dominated by biofilm forming, corrosion causing, and potentially pathogenic bacteria. The phyla Proteobacteria, Actinobacteriota, Bacteroidota, Planctomycetota, Firmicutes, and Cyanobacteria made up 96% of the relative abundance. The & alpha;-diversity measurements of prokaryotic communities showed no difference in taxa evenness and richness based on sampling sites (shower or hand basins), sampling phases (months), and presence or absence of Vermamoeba vermiformis. However, & beta;-diversity measurements showed significant clustering of prokaryotic communities based on sampling phases, with the greatest difference observed between the samples collected in phase 1 vs phase 2/3. Importantly, significant difference was observed in prokaryotic communities based on flow dynamics of the incoming water. The Pielou's evenness diversity index revealed a significant difference (Kruskal Wallis, p < 0.05) and showed higher species richness in low flow regime (< 13 minutes water flushing per week and & LE; 765 flushing events per six months). Similarly, Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index found significant differences (PERMANOVA, p < 0.05) in the prokaryotic communities of low vs medium/high flow regimes. Furthermore, linear discriminant analysis effect size showed that several biofilm forming (e.g., Pseudomonadales), corrosion causing (e.g., Desulfobacterales), extremely environmental stress resistant (e.g., Deinococcales), and potentially pathogenic (e.g., Pseudomonas) bacterial taxa were in higher amounts under low flow regime conditions. This study demonstrated that a hospital building water system consists of a complex microbiome that is shaped by incoming water quality and the building flow dynamics arising through usage.		[Nisar, Muhammad Atif; Ross, Kirstin E.; Brown, Melissa H.; Bentham, Richard; Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Sci & Engn, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Brown, Melissa H.; Leterme, Sophie C.; Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, ARC Training Ctr Biofilm Res & Innovat, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Xi, James; Hinds, Jason] Enware Australia Pty Ltd, Caringbah, NSW, Australia; [Jamieson, Tamar; Leterme, Sophie C.] Flinders Univ S Australia, Inst Nanosci & Technol, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia; [Whiley, Harriet] Flinders Univ S Australia, Coll Sci & Engn, Bedford Pk, SA, Australia								0							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001049490300001		
J	Najah, Haythem; Edelmuth, Rodrigo C. L.; Riascos, Maria Cristina; Grier, Alex; Al Asadi, Hala; Greenberg, Jacques A.; Miranda, Ileana; Crawford, Carl V.; Finnerty, Brendan M.; Fahey III, Thomas J.; Zarnegar, Rasa								Long-term potassium-competitive acid blockers administration causes microbiota changes in rats								SURGICAL ENDOSCOPY AND OTHER INTERVENTIONAL TECHNIQUES				37	10			7980	7990		10.1007/s00464-023-10269-6			OCT 2023	2023	BackgroundVonoprazan is a new potassium-competitive acid blocker (P-CAB) that was recently approved by the FDA. It is associated with a fast onset of action and a longer acid inhibition time. Vonoprazan-containing therapy for helicobacter pylori eradication is highly effective and several studies have demonstrated that a vonoprazan-antibiotic regimen affects gut microbiota. However, the impact of vonoprazan alone on gut microbiota is still unclear.Please check and confirm the authors (Maria Cristina Riascos, Hala Al Asadi) given name and family name are correct. Also, kindly confirm the details in the metadata are correct.Yes they are correct. MethodsWe conducted a prospective randomized 12-week experimental trial with 18 Wistar rats. Rats were randomly assigned to one of 3 groups: (1) drinking water as negative control group, (2) oral vonoprazan (4 mg/kg) for 12 weeks, and (3) oral vonoprazan (4 mg/kg) for 4 weeks, followed by 8 weeks off vonoprazan. To investigate gut microbiota, we carried out a metagenomic shotgun sequencing of fecal samples at week 0 and week 12.Please confirm the inserted city and country name is correct for affiliation 2.Yes it's correct.ResultsFor alpha diversity metrics at week 12, both long and short vonoprazan groups had lower Pielou's evenness index than the control group (p = 0.019); however, observed operational taxonomic units (p = 0.332) and Shannon's diversity index (p = 0.070) were not statistically different between groups. Beta diversity was significantly different in the three groups, using Bray-Curtis (p = 0.003) and Jaccard distances (p = 0.002). At week 12, differences in relative abundance were observed at all levels. At phylum level, short vonoprazan group had less of Actinobacteria (log fold change = - 1.88, adjusted p-value = 0.048) and Verrucomicrobia (lfc = - 1.76, p = 0.009).Please check and confirm that the author (Ileana Miranda) and their respective affiliation 3 details have been correctly identified and amend if necessary.Yes it's correct.At the genus level, long vonoprazan group had more Bacteroidales (lfc = 5.01, p = 0.021) and Prevotella (lfc = 7.79, p = 0.001). At family level, long vonoprazan group had more Lactobacillaceae (lfc = 0.97, p = 0.001), Prevotellaceae (lfc = 8.01, p < 0.001), and less Erysipelotrichaceae (lfc = - 2.9, p = 0.029).ConclusionThis study provides evidence that vonoprazan impacts the gut microbiota and permits a precise delineation of the composition and relative abundance of the bacteria at all different taxonomic levels.		[Najah, Haythem; Edelmuth, Rodrigo C. L.; Riascos, Maria Cristina; Al Asadi, Hala; Greenberg, Jacques A.; Finnerty, Brendan M.; Fahey III, Thomas J.; Zarnegar, Rasa] Weill Cornell Med Coll, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Surg, Div Endocrine & Minimally Invas Surg, 525 East 68th St,K-836, New York, NY 10065 USA; [Grier, Alex] Weill Cornell Med, Microbiome Core Lab, New York, NY USA; [Miranda, Ileana] Rockefeller Univ, Weill Cornell Med Coll, Mem Sloan Kettering Canc Ctr, Lab Comparat Pathol LCP, New York, NY USA; [Crawford, Carl V.] Weill Cornell Med Coll, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Med, Div Gastroenterol & Hepatol, New York, NY USA; [Edelmuth, Rodrigo C. L.] Hosp Israelita Albert Einstein, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Najah, Haythem] Weill Cornell Med Coll, New York Presbyterian Hosp, Dept Surg, Div Endocrine & Minimally Invas Surg, 525 East 68th St,K-836, New York, NY 10065 USA								0							Surgery	WOS:001028476200001		
J	Moce, Maria Lorena; Esteve, Ines Carolina; Gomez, Ernesto A.; Perez-Fuentes, Sara; Moce, Eva								Microbial composition of goat buck's ejaculates is modified by the process of preparing and storing refrigerated semen doses								THERIOGENOLOGY				209				202	212		10.1016/j.theriogenology.2023.06.013			OCT 1 2023	2023	Ejaculates present their own microbiota, and a link between ejaculates' microbiota and sperm quality and fertility exists. With the development of artificial insemination in animal breeding, ejaculates must be manipulated by diluting them with extenders and storing them at temperatures below body temperature. The effects that these processes have on the original semen microbiota have never been studied. This study explores the effects of the protocol for preparing refrigerated goat buck semen doses and storing on seminal microbiota. Semen from six adult goat bucks of the Murciano-Granadina breed (24 ejaculates) was used, cooled to 4 & DEG;C in a skimmed milk-based extender, and stored at this temperature for 24 h. Samples were taken in different steps: in the raw ejaculates (ejaculates), after dilution with the refrigeration extender (diluted), immediately after reaching 4 & DEG;C (chilled 0 h) and the samples refrigerated at 4 & DEG;C and stored at this temperature for 24 h (chilled 24 h). Sperm quality (motility and integrity of plasma and acrosomal membrane, and mitochondrial functionality) was also evaluated. Bacterial 16S rRNA sequencing was used to study the seminal microbiota. Our results indicated that both refrigeration and storage at 4 & DEG;C negatively affected sperm quality parameters. Preparing semen doses and their subsequent conservation caused a significant change in the bacterial community structure. Raw ejaculates showed a lower Pielou's evenness index than the other samples (diluted, chilled 0 h and chilled 24 h). Ejaculates also had a lower Shannon's diversity index (3.44) than the diluted semen (4.17) and the semen chilled for 24 h (4.43). Regarding beta diversity, significant differences were detected between ejaculates and the other treatments. Differences were also found in unweighted UniFrac distances between the semen chilled for 0 h and that chilled for 24 h. At the genus level, marked effects of preparing doses and their subsequent conservation were also evident: 199 genera that were absent in ejaculates were found in the semen chilled and stored for 24 h; 177 genera that were present in ejaculates disappeared after 24-h refrigeration. In conclusion, the extender and protocol for preparing refrigerated goat buck semen doses considerably modify microbial ejaculate composition.& COPY; 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.		[Moce, Maria Lorena] Univ Cardenal Herrera CEU, CEU Univ, Fac Vet, Dept Anim Prod & Hlth Vet Publ Hlth & Food Sci & T, Valencia, Spain; [Esteve, Ines Carolina; Gomez, Ernesto A.; Perez-Fuentes, Sara; Moce, Eva] Inst Valenciano Invest Agr, Ctr Invest & Tecnol Anim CITA, Segorbe, Castellon, Spain; [Moce, Maria Lorena; Esteve, Ines Carolina; Gomez, Ernesto A.; Moce, Eva] CEU, Unidad Asociada UCH, IVIA, Valencia, Spain; [Moce, Eva] Inst Valenciano Invest Agr, CITA, Poligono Esperanza 100, Segorbe 12400, Castellon, Spain; [Moce, Eva] Inst Valenciano Invest Agr, CITA, Poligono Esperanza 100, Segorbe 12400, Castellon, Spain								0							Reproductive Biology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:001037500200001		
J	He, Shan; Xu, Jijun; Yi, Yujun; Zhang, Enze								Variations in Aquatic Vegetation Diversity Responses to Water Level Sequences during Drought in Lakes under Uncertain Conditions								WATER				15	13					2395	10.3390/w15132395			JUL 2023	2023	Water level variability and temporal change are critical for shaping the structure of aquatic vegetation. Much research has examined the response of aquatic vegetation to hydrological metrics. However, the hydrological sequence is a fundamental driver of aquatic ecosystem structure and function. Given the aleatory uncertainty of future water levels under an unstable climate, how aquatic vegetation responds to changing dynamics in hydrological processes, especially shifting water level sequences, remains insufficiently explored. In this paper, we establish an evaluation framework to study the response of vegetation diversity to variation in water level sequences during a drought event. To do this, the uncertainty and variability of water level processes are both considered. Altering water level processes was achieved using two types of scenarios in order to explore the effects of differing water level sequences (i.e., changing the order of high vs. low water levels) on the probability distribution of four indexes of aquatic plant diversity (e.g., Margalef's, Simpson's, Shannon's, and Pielou's evenness index). Our results show that altering the order of water level state can lead to differences in the diversity of aquatic vegetation, with a pronounced impact on vegetation complexity. This suggests that the specific sequence of water level events is critical for shaping aquatic vegetation structure. In addition, we found that a uniform distribution of water level state is beneficial for enhancing a species' dominance in aquatic vegetation. Our findings provide guidance for improving the future development of freshwater ecosystem protection and lake management.		[He, Shan; Xu, Jijun] Changjiang Water Resources Commiss, Changjiang River Sci Res Inst, 23 Huangpu Rd, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Hydraul Engn, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [He, Shan; Xu, Jijun] Hubei Key Lab Water Resources & Ecoenvironm Sci, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [Yi, Yujun] Beijing Normal Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Water Environm Simulat, 19 Xinjiekouwai St, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Enze] Beijing Univ Technol, Fac Architecture Civil & Transportat Engn, Beijing 100124, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Changjiang Water Resources Commiss, Changjiang River Sci Res Inst, 23 Huangpu Rd, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Tsinghua Univ, Dept Hydraul Engn, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [He, Shan] Hubei Key Lab Water Resources & Ecoenvironm Sci, Wuhan 430010, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:001028549000001		
J	Zhou, Kang; Peng, Maijiao; Tan, Zhoujin; Xiao, Nenqun								Diarrhea Caused by High-Fat and High-Protein Diet Was Associated With Intestinal Lactase-Producing Bacteria								TURKISH JOURNAL OF GASTROENTEROLOGY				34	7			691	699		10.5152/tjg.2023.22451			JUL 2023	2023	Background/Aims: This study aimed to investigate the effect of diarrhea induced by a high-fat and high-protein diet on lactase-producing bacteria in the intestinal contents of mice from the perspective of diarrhea-related genes. Materials and Methods: Ten specific pathogen-free Kunming male mice were chosen and randomly divided into the normal group and model group. The mice in the normal group were fed with high-fat and high-protein diet plus gavage of vegetable oil, while those in the model group were fed with general diet plus gavage of distilled water. After successful modeling, the distribution and diversity of lactaseproducing bacteria in the intestinal contents were characterized by metagenomic sequencing technology. Results: After high-fat and high-protein diet intervention, Chao1, observed species index, and operational taxonomic units number decreased in the model group (P >.05), while the Shannon, Simpson, Pielou's evenness, and Goods coverage indices increased (P >.05). The principal coordinate analysis showed that the composition of lactase-producing bacteria differed between the normal group and model group (P <.05). The lactase-producing bacterial source in the intestinal contents of mice was Actinobacteria, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria, of which Actinobacteria was the most abundant phylum. At the genus level, both groups had their unique genera, respectively. Compared to the normal group, the abundance of Bifidobacterium, Rhizobium, and Sphingobium increased, while Lachnoclostridium, Lactobacillus, Saccharopolyspora, and Sinorhizobium decreased in the model group. Conclusion: High-fat and high-protein diet altered the structure of lactase-producing bacteria in the intestinal contents, elevating the abundance of dominant lactase-producing bacteria, while decreasing the richness of lactase-producing bacteria, which may further induce the occurrence of diarrhea.		[Zhou, Kang; Peng, Maijiao; Xiao, Nenqun] Hunan Univ Chinese Med, Fac Pharm, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China; [Tan, Zhoujin] Hunan Univ Chinese Med, Fac Med, Changsha, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Nenqun] Hunan Univ Chinese Med, Fac Pharm, Changsha, Hunan, Peoples R China								1							Gastroenterology & Hepatology	WOS:001037640200003		
J	Chandel, Ravinder Singh; Chandel, Yamini; Rana, Abhishek; Thakur, Himanshu; Verma, Kuldeep Singh								Diversity and abundance of phytophagous scarab beetles in north-western Himalaya (India)								BIOLOGIA				78	11			3207	3221		10.1007/s11756-023-01447-x			NOV 2023	2023	Studies on the biodiversity of phytophagous scarab beetles were conducted by using light traps at six locations with altitude ranging from 807-2044 m a.s.l. in north-western Himalaya. At Sundernagar, Jogindernagar, Chailchowk and Pangna, Holotrichia longipennis and Anomala lineatopennis were recorded as predominant species. The relative abundance of H. longipennis and A. lineatopennis varied from 13.45-23.36 and 14.19-24.41%, respectively. The predominant species at Bagsaid were Anomala dimidiata (14.96%) and Anomala rufiventris (14.60%). Brahmina coriacea and Brahmina flavosericea were found to be other leading species at Bagsaid and Janjehli and their relative abundance was 14.23-14.85 and 12.41-15.39%, respectively. The pooled analysis of data from six locations revealed that H. longipennis was the most predominant species comprising 16.28% of total beetle catch. The Pielou's evenness index was maximum at Pangna (J' = 0.86) and minimum at Chailchowk (J' = 0.72). The value of Shannon index (H') was maximum at Pangna (H' = 2.54), and minimum at Sundernagar and Jogindernagar (H' = 2.18). The Fisher plots indicated few common and more rare species at most of the locations. The Whittaker rank/ abundance curves showed greater evenness of scarab assemblage at Chailchowk and Pangna. The Beta diversity exhibited maximum similarity between Sundernagar and Chailchowk, whereas maximum dissimilarity among scarab communities was recorded between Jogindernagar and Janjehli.		[Chandel, Ravinder Singh; Chandel, Yamini; Rana, Abhishek; Thakur, Himanshu; Verma, Kuldeep Singh] CSK Himachal Pradesh Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Palampur, India; [Rana, Abhishek] CSK Himachal Pradesh Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Palampur, India								0							Biology	WOS:001016400800002		
J	Wu, Xiao-bin; Wang, Jian; Tang, Yuan; Jiang, Jing; Li, Xue-mei								Altered intestinal microbiota in children with bronchiolitis								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				14						1197092	10.3389/fmicb.2023.1197092			JUN 15 2023	2023	ObjectiveTo investigate the correlation between the alteration of intestinal microbiota and disease in children with bronchiolitis. MethodsFifty seven children diagnosed with bronchiolitis from January 2020 to January 2022 in our pediatric department were included as the case group, and another 36 normal children were included as the control group. Stool and blood were collected from both groups for high-throughput sequencing, untargeted metabolite detection and ELISA. A mouse model of RSV infection was established to validate the results of clinical case detection. ResultsBody weight, passive smoking, and a host of other factors were possible as acute bronchiolitis influencing factors in the onset of acute bronchiolitis. The alpha diversity Shannon, Simpson and Pielou's evenness indices were significantly lower in children with acute bronchiolitis than in healthy children with gated levels of Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes and genus levels of Clostridium and other short chain fatty acid-producing bacteria. The relative abundance of short-chain fatty acid (SCFAs)-producing bacteria decreased and the abundance of genus-level sphingolipid-producing bacteria Sphingomonas increased; the progression of acute bronchiolitis is likely to be associated with the abundance of Clostridium and Sphingomonas and higher fecal amino acid concentrations, including FF-MAS, L-aspartic acid, thioinosinic acid, picolinic acid; supplementation with Clostridium butyricum significantly alleviated RSV infection-induced lung inflammation. ConclusionThe progression of bronchiolitis may be associated with altered intestinal microbiota, decreased SCFAs and elevated sphingolipids metabolism in children. Some fecal bacteria and metabolites may predict the onset of bronchiolitis, and oral administration of Clostridium butyricum may alleviate RSV infection-induced pulmonary inflammation.		[Wu, Xiao-bin; Wang, Jian; Tang, Yuan; Jiang, Jing; Li, Xue-mei] Chongqing Hlth Ctr Women & Children, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Wu, Xiao-bin; Wang, Jian; Tang, Yuan; Jiang, Jing; Li, Xue-mei] Chongqing Med Univ, Women & Childrens Hosp, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Jing; Li, Xue-mei] Chongqing Hlth Ctr Women & Children, Chongqing, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Jing; Li, Xue-mei] Chongqing Med Univ, Women & Childrens Hosp, Chongqing, Peoples R China								0							Microbiology	WOS:001017972400001		
J	Huo, Xueying; Ren, Chengjie; Wang, Dexiang; Wu, Runqin; Wang, Yunshu; Li, Zengfeng; Huang, Dongcai; Qi, Haiyu								Microbial community assembly and its influencing factors of secondary forests in Qinling Mountains								SOIL BIOLOGY & BIOCHEMISTRY				184						109075	10.1016/j.soilbio.2023.109075			SEP 2023	2023	Forest soil microbial community is easily modified by changes in plant composition. Therefore, differences in the assembly of soil microbial community within different forest types should be evaluated to gain a deeper understanding of microbial biodiversity and forest system functioning. In the present study, pine, oak, and pine-oak mixed forests at different developmental stages (young, immature, and mature forests) were evaluated to explore the assembly, co-occurrence network, and influencing factors of bacterial and fungal community. The assembly of bacterial community was dominated by deterministic processes (homogeneous selection), whereas the assembly of fungal community was dominated by stochastic processes (dispersion limited). At the young forest stage, the proportion of deterministic processes in bacterial community assembly among the three forest types differed less. In contrast, the proportion of deterministic processes at the immature and mature forest stages in the bacterial community assembly in the pine-oak mixed forest was larger than that in the pure forests. The proportion of stochastic processes in the assembly of fungal community in the pine-oak mixed forest was greater than that in the pure forests and was observed at all forest stages. Network analysis showed that the links and average degree of bacteria in the pine-oak mixed forest were lower than that of the pure forests, whereas the network topological features of fungi in the pine-oak mixed forest were higher than that of the pure forests. The stochastic processes increased microbial co-occurrence. The results of the random forest indicated that Pielou's evenness index (E) of plant was the most important predictor of fungal community assembly, and Shannon's diversity index (H) of plant also was the critical factor influencing bacterial community assembly. Our study demonstrated the importance of plant diversity in the assembly of forest soil microbial community.		[Huo, Xueying; Wang, Dexiang; Wu, Runqin; Wang, Yunshu; Li, Zengfeng; Huang, Dongcai; Qi, Haiyu] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Ren, Chengjie] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Agron, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Wang, Dexiang] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								7							Soil Science	WOS:001018085500001		
J	Fai, Patricia Bi Asanga; Kenko, Daniel Brice Nkontcheu; Tchamadeu, Norbert Ngameni; Mbida, Mpoame; Korejs, Krystof; Riegert, Jan								Use of multivariate analysis to identify phytoplankton bioindicators of stream water quality in the monomodal equatorial agroecological zone of Cameroon								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				195	6					788	10.1007/s10661-023-11390-8			JUN 2023	2023	The aquatic ecosystem is compromised by many contaminants that may reduce ecosystem functions and severely affect human health. This study aimed at determining suitable phytoplankton bioindicators of water quality for biomonitoring of freshwater streams in the monomodal agroecological zone of Cameroon. Water physicochemical and hydrological parameters, together with phytoplankton abundance and diversity, were measured from June 2016 to May 2017 along the Benoe Stream. Principal component analysis and redundancy analysis were used to determine phytoplankton spatial and temporal distribution and identify indicator species. The Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness indices indicated a clean to mildly polluted stream with a diverse phytoplankton community consisting of 84 genera belonging to 51 families that was dominated by the Bacillariophyta (64%), followed by Chlorophyta (13%) and Cyanophyta (10%). The total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, stream water velocity, and discharge were the most important stream characteristics affecting the abundance of the dominant phytoplankton genera. Seasonal variations in the stream characteristics as well as spatial community distribution along an urban-small-scale farming - large-scale farming gradient were unveiled and their influence on the phytoplankton relative abundances. Increased abundance of Synedra ulna was indicative of low TDS and EC, which was the contrary for Gyrosigma baltium dominance. High Pleurosira laevis abundance was associated with the urban zone while high Diatoma sp. and Oscillatoria sp. abundances were related to the large-scale farming zone of the stream. These phytoplankton species have good potential for use as bioindicators for stream water quality monitoring in the monomodal agroecological zone.		[Fai, Patricia Bi Asanga; Kenko, Daniel Brice Nkontcheu; Tchamadeu, Norbert Ngameni; Mbida, Mpoame] Univ Dschang, Dschang Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Anim Biol, BP 96 Dschang, Dschang, West Region, Cameroon; [Fai, Patricia Bi Asanga] Univ Bamenda, Coll Technol, POB 70, Bambili, North West Regi, Cameroon; [Kenko, Daniel Brice Nkontcheu] Univ Buea, Fac Sci, Dept Anim Biol & Conservat, Buea, Cameroon; [Korejs, Krystof; Riegert, Jan] Univ South Bohemia Ceske Budejovice, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Ceske Budejovice 176037005, South Bohemia, Czech Republic; [Fai, Patricia Bi Asanga] Univ Dschang, Dschang Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Anim Biol, BP 96 Dschang, Dschang, West Region, Cameroon								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001000394800009		
J	Semy, Khikeya; Singh, Maibam Romeo								Changes in plant diversity and community attributes of coal mine affected forest in relation to a community reserve forest of Nagaland, Northeast India								TROPICAL ECOLOGY											10.1007/s42965-023-00310-z				2023	This study assessed changes in herb, shrub and tree composition of Coal mining-affected forest (CMAF) area in relation to a community reserve forest designated as Non-affected forest (NAF) of Changki village, Nagaland, Northeast India. In all the three plant life forms, Shannon-Wiener index, Simpson's diversity index and Margalef richness index showed higher species diversity and richness in NAF compared to CMAF while Sorenson's index reveals a low species similarity between the sites. Pielou's evenness was higher at NAF and a contiguous pattern was prominently distributed in both the forest. The family Poaceae, Asteraceae and Cyperaceae dominated the CMAF while Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae and Poaceae dominated NAF. The NAF has greater plant density compared to CMAF and the IVI shows the dominant status of native tree Terminalia myriocarpa in the Northeastern tropical forest. Weeds like Ageratum conyzoides, Bidens pilosa and Drymaria cordata were prominently distributed in CMAF while Abarema clypearia, Inula cappa and Strobilanthes coloratus has been obstructed by mining. The result imparted that the plant diversity of Nagaland tropical forests are under threat due to coal mining which has reduced the vegetation diversity and induce the loss of dominant plant species. As such, regulation of mine waste, land reclamation projects, robust forest management and bioremediation can be scientifically integrated to reduce the mining repercussion effects. Moreover, the result emphasizes the need to impart the tribal knowledge of preserving natural forest to the upcoming generations and develop conservation strategies to prevent further degradation or loss of biodiversity in this part of the Indo-Burma hotspot region.		[Semy, Khikeya; Singh, Maibam Romeo] Nagaland Univ, Dept Bot, Lumami 798627, India; [Semy, Khikeya] Don Bosco Coll, Kohima 797001, Nagaland, India; [Semy, Khikeya] Nagaland Univ, Dept Bot, Lumami 798627, India; [Semy, Khikeya] Don Bosco Coll, Kohima 797001, Nagaland, India								1							Ecology	WOS:000995134200001		
J	Lutter, Reimo; Riit, Taavi; Agan, Ahto; Ra, Elisabeth; Tullus, Arvo; Sopp, Reeno; Ots, Katri; Kaivapalu, Marju; Ta, Kristjan; Tullus, Tea; Tedersoo, Leho; Drenkhan, Rein; Tullus, Hardi								Soil fungal diversity of birch plantations on former agricultural land resembles naturally regenerated birch stands on agricultural and forest land								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				542						121100	10.1016/j.foreco.2023.121100			AUG 15 2023	2023	Short-rotation forestry on former agricultural soils is a novel silvicultural system for producing woody biomass and mitigating climate change through CO2 uptake. However, tree plantations are often criticized for their low biodiversity and are sometimes referred to as "green deserts". We hypothesize that regarding biodiversity, the spontaneous natural regeneration of birch on former agricultural lands may be preferable to plantations. In this study, we compared soil fungal diversity and composition of fast-growing silver birch (Betula pendula Roth) plantations on former agricultural lands (n = 11) with naturally regenerated birch stands on former agricultural lands (n = 11) and native forest birch stands (n = 11) at the age of 21-28 years in hemiboreal Estonia. PacBio third-generation sequencing was carried out to analyse fungal species richness and composition in the soil samples. Sequencing of the fungal ITS region from 33 birch stand soil samples yielded 2830 fungal OTUs. We found that the total fungal species richness, per sample species richness, Shannon diversity index, and Pielou's evenness index did not differ significantly between the studied stand types. However, fungal community composition of both plantations and naturally regenerated stands on former agricultural lands differed significantly from the native forest stands, indicating that previous land use (agriculture vs. forest) had a stronger effect on fungal assemblages than the used regeneration method (planting vs. natural regeneration). The relative abundance of ectomycorrhizal and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi was higher, and the relative abundance of saprotrophic fungi was lower in plantations than in native birch dominated forest stands. Soil chemical properties were found to be weak explanatory variables for describing soil fungal richness and composition. We identified historical surrounding forest cover, stand age, stand distance from a native forest, and soil Mg content as the factors significantly affecting soil fungal communities. These results indicate that fast-growing birch plantations established on former agricultural soils or naturally regenerated stands on such soils in the Northern Europe region harbour soil fungal diversity levels similar to those of same-aged native birch forests.		[Lutter, Reimo; Riit, Taavi; Agan, Ahto; Sopp, Reeno; Ots, Katri; Kaivapalu, Marju; Tullus, Tea; Drenkhan, Rein; Tullus, Hardi] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Forestry & Engn, Chair Forest Ecol & Management, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51006 Tartu, Estonia; [Tullus, Arvo] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Bot, J Liivi 2, EE-50409 Tartu, Estonia; [Tedersoo, Leho] Univ Tartu, Mycol & Microbiol Ctr, J Liivi 2, EE-50409 Tartu, Estonia; [Lutter, Reimo] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Forestry & Engn, Chair Forest Ecol & Management, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51006 Tartu, Estonia								1							Forestry	WOS:001013042800001		
J	Corre, Guillaume; Galy, Anne								Evaluation of diversity indices to estimate clonal dominance in gene therapy studies								MOLECULAR THERAPY-METHODS & CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT				29				418	425		10.1016/j.omtm.2023.05.003			JUN 8 2023	2023	In cell and gene therapy, achieving the stable engraftment of an abundant and highly polyclonal population of gene-corrected cells is one of the key factors to ensure the successful and safe treatment of patients. Because integrative vectors have been associated with possible risks of insertional mutagenesis lead-ing to clonal dominance, monitoring the relative abundance of individual vector insertion sites in patients' blood cells has become an important safety assessment, particularly in he-matopoietic stem cell-based therapies. Clinical studies often express clonal diversity using various metrics. One of the most commonly used is the Shannon index of entropy. Howev-er, this index aggregates two distinct aspects of diversity, the number of unique species and their relative abundance. This property hampers the comparison of samples with different richness. This prompted us to reanalyze published datasets and to model the properties of various indices as applied to the evaluation of clonal diversity in gene therapy. A normalized version of the Shannon index, such as Pielou's index, or Simp-son's probability index is robust and useful to compare sample evenness between patients and trials. Clinically meaningful standard values for clonal diversity are herein proposed to facilitate the use of vector insertion site analyses in genomic medicine practice.		[Corre, Guillaume; Galy, Anne] Genethon, F-91000 Evry, France; [Corre, Guillaume; Galy, Anne] Univ Evry, Univ Paris Saclay, Inserm, Genethon,Integrare Res Unit,UMR S951, F-91000 Evry, France; [Galy, Anne] Inserm, ART TG, US35, 30 Rue H Desbrueres, F-91100 Corbeil Essonnes, France; [Galy, Anne] Inserm, ART TG, US35, 30 Rue H Desbrueres, F-91100 Corbeil Essonnes, France								2							Medicine, Research & Experimental	WOS:001042249300001		
J	Li, Yuanfa; Ye, Shaoming; Luo, Yinghua; Yu, Sufang; Zhang, Gongqiao								Relationship between species diversity and tree size in natural forests around the Tropic of Cancer								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				34	6			1735	1745		10.1007/s11676-023-01616-3			DEC 2023	2023	Although numerous hypotheses have been proposed to explain the patterns of species diversity of forests at local and landscape levels, it is still difficult to predict the alpha diversity of species, especially in tropical and subtropical natural forests where trees of different sizes and shapes are highly mixed. Size might characterize species diversity, and the possible correlation between these variables may contribute to the development of easy-to-use growth indicators to predict diversity and to understand the status of trees within a stand. In this study, diameter classes were divided using the equal diameter class (EDC) and minimum measured diameter (MMD) methods, and five species diversity indices were calculated for each diameter class of 14 permanent plots in five national nature reserves surrounding the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees), southwest China. The results show that species richness, abundance, and spatial diversity indices decreased in a typical inverted J-shape pattern with increasing diameter class and MMD, and could be easily modeled by a negative exponential function. The Shannon-Wiener index showed a linear decrease while Pielou's evenness index displayed a linear increase, with a small degree of instability. The results suggest that species diversity in subtropical forests is closely related to tree size, and the relationship is possibly independent of habitat. Measuring DBH of some trees in a stand could be informative regarding species diversity and contribute to the investigation and assessment of biodiversity.		[Li, Yuanfa; Ye, Shaoming; Luo, Yinghua; Yu, Sufang; Zhang, Gongqiao] Guangxi Univ, Coll Forestry, Guangxi Key Lab Forest Ecol & Conservat, Nanning 530004, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanfa; Luo, Yinghua] Laibin Jinxiu Dayaoshan Forest Ecosyst Observat &, 95 Gongde Rd, Laibin 545700, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Gongqiao] Chinese Acad Forestry, Natl Forestry & Grassland Adm, Res Inst Forestry, Key Lab Tree Breeding & Cultivat, Xiangshan Rd, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanfa; Zhang, Gongqiao] Guangxi Univ, Coll Forestry, Guangxi Key Lab Forest Ecol & Conservat, Nanning 530004, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanfa] Laibin Jinxiu Dayaoshan Forest Ecosyst Observat &, 95 Gongde Rd, Laibin 545700, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Gongqiao] Chinese Acad Forestry, Natl Forestry & Grassland Adm, Res Inst Forestry, Key Lab Tree Breeding & Cultivat, Xiangshan Rd, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China								0							Forestry	WOS:000986129500001		
J	Hou, Wenhao; Wei, Xiangtao; Bai, Weihao; Zheng, Yajuan; Tan, Qiyin; Liu, Zhaojun; Rong, Bowen; Ge, Changzi								Effects of Manila clam <i>Ruditapes philippinarum</i> culture on the macrobenthic community								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				10						1084386	10.3389/fmars.2023.1084386			APR 28 2023	2023	Macrobenthic bioturbation affects the environment, and variances in habitat, such as decreased dissolved oxygen concentration and increased ammonia concentration, affects the macrobenthic community. The relationship between macrobenthos and habitat factors may be a mutually causal relationship. The bottom-sowing culture for Manila clam Ruditapes philippinarum in many coastal countries plays an important role in coastal fisheries, and the relationship between Manila clam and other macrobenthos affects the ecological stability of the bottom-sowing culture zone. It is necessary to explore the relationship between them to manage the waters used for the bottom-sowing culture for Manila clam. In this study , from June to October 2021, the field investigation on macrobenthos including Manila clam and their habitat factors, such as particle size, nutrient content, redox potential, and organic matter content, in 21 experimental communities enclosed by bolting-silk net in Shuangdao Bay, Weihai, Shandong, China was conducted, during which macrobenthos functional groups were determined by feed sources and motor behavior. The results showed that Manila clam biomass was 7.215 +/- 0.984 g/m2 (calculated by dry soft tissue weight), and it was positively correlated with the biomass of macrobebthos functional groups B1, G1 and P1; water content in sediment; sulfide content in interstitial water; the Shanon-Wiener diversity index; Pielou's evenness index and the W statistic of the ABC (Abundance-Biomass Comparison) curve (p< 0.05). Moreover, it was negatively correlated with sediment particulate size and HCl-NO3 content in sediment (p< 0.05). The action of Manila clam to habitats was the dominant role of the interaction between clam and habitat. Thus, the bottom-sowing culture for Manila clam does not decrease the macrobenthic community stability, and the invasion of other macrobenthos into the bottom-sowing culture zones for Manila clam may be accidental or inevitable. The results of our study suggest that the management of the bottom-sowing culture for Manila clam should be conducted from ecosystem level; i.e., fishing and aquaculture in the same waters are regarded as two components of an ecosystem; manage them together, rather than treat them separately.		[Hou, Wenhao; Wei, Xiangtao; Bai, Weihao; Zheng, Yajuan; Tan, Qiyin; Liu, Zhaojun; Rong, Bowen; Ge, Changzi] Shandong Univ, Marine Coll, Weihai, Peoples R China; [Ge, Changzi] Shandong Univ, Marine Coll, Weihai, Peoples R China								1							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000985242000001		
J	Wang, Xiaogu; Bai, Lifen; Wang, Chunsheng; Lu, Bo; Li, Yujie; Lin, Qinyi; Huang, Xinyu; Fontoura, Paulo								Preliminary studies of the tardigrada communities from a polymetallic nodule area of the deep South China Sea								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				10						1110841	10.3389/fmars.2023.1110841			APR 21 2023	2023	Knowledge about marine tardigrades from the South China Sea is very scarce, with only four species from shallow waters recorded to date. The present study investigated the structure and diversity of tardigrade communities from the deep sea (1517-1725 m) at 8 stations in a polymetallic nodule area of the northern South China Sea. A total of 151 arthrotardigrades were collected belonging to 11 genera (Angursa, Batillipes, Coronarctus, Euclavarctus, Exoclavarctus, Halechiniscus, Moebjergarctus, Raiarctus, Rhomboarctus, Tanarctus and Tholoarctus), representing 17 species. Two Angursa species (Angursa sp. 4 and Angursa sp. 3) were the most abundant (25.2% and 14.6%, respectively), followed by Moebjergarctus sp. (13.9%). Specimens were mostly (90.7%) distributed in the upper layer of the sandy-mud sediment (0-1 cm). The SIMPROF test showed that the composition of tardigrade communities at all stations was not significantly different. At different stations, the number of species, Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index ranged from 4 to 10, 1.94 to 2.87, and 0.75 to 1.00, respectively. The average taxonomic distinctness (Delta+) ranged from 72.50 to 90.00, and the variation in taxonomic distinctness (?+) ranged from 316.67 to 1181.25. This study provides some basic information about the biodiversity of the marine tardigrade community in the South China Sea.		[Wang, Xiaogu; Bai, Lifen; Wang, Chunsheng; Lu, Bo; Li, Yujie; Lin, Qinyi; Huang, Xinyu] Minist Nat Resources MNR, Inst Oceanog 2, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst Dynam, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Chunsheng] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab, Zhuhai, Peoples R China; [Fontoura, Paulo] Univ Porto, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Porto, Portugal; [Fontoura, Paulo] Univ Inst, Marine & Environm Sci Ctr, MARE, ISPA, Lisbon, Portugal; [Wang, Chunsheng] Minist Nat Resources MNR, Inst Oceanog 2, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst Dynam, Hangzhou, Peoples R China; [Wang, Chunsheng] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab, Zhuhai, Peoples R China								0							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000980387800001		
J	Thornbrugh, Darren; Infante, Dana; Tsang, Yinphan								Regional Trends of Biodiversity Indices in the Temperate Mesic United States: Testing for Influences of Anthropogenic Land Use on Stream Fish while Controlling for Natural Landscape Variables								WATER				15	8					1591	10.3390/w15081591			APR 2023	2023	The biodiversity of stream fishes is critically threatened globally, and a major factor leading to the loss of biodiversity is anthropogenic land use in stream catchments, which act as stressors to stream fishes. Declines in the biodiversity of stream fish are often identified by a loss of species or fewer individuals comprising assemblages, but biological degradation can also occur with increases in non-native species and/or the spread of fish tolerant to anthropogenic land use, suggesting the importance of accounting for the distinctness of assemblages along with richness and diversity to best characterize the response of stream fish assemblages to anthropogenic landscape stressors. We summarized stream fish assemblages from 10,522 locations through multiple biodiversity indices and then quantified index responsiveness to natural landscape variables and anthropogenic land use in stream network catchments across five freshwater ecoregions in the temperate mesic portion of the United States. Indices included species richness, Shannon's diversity, Pielou's evenness, beta diversity, taxonomic diversity, and taxonomic distinctness. First, we tested for correlations among indices across freshwater ecoregions and found that while species richness and Shannon's diversity were always highly correlated, taxonomic distinctiveness was not highly correlated with other biodiversity indices measured except taxonomic diversity. Then, we used multiple linear regression to predict biodiversity indices in each of the five freshwater ecoregions to identify significant landscape variables from natural landscape and anthropogenic land uses. Most indices were consistently predicted by catchment area, and many were predicted by elevation, except for beta diversity, emphasizing the importance of these natural landscape variables on biodiversity. In contrast, taxonomic distinctness was often predicted by the amount of urban land use in the catchment, but the direction of the relationship varied. The proportion of agriculture land use in the network catchment was a more consistent predictor of species richness, beta diversity, and Shannon's diversity. Our analyses show that taxonomic distinctness in freshwater fishes characterize a unique element of biodiversity in relationships with anthropogenic land uses in a streams network catchment. Taxonomic distinctness may also be an effective metric for the bioassessment of stream fishes along with richness and diversity indices to help preserve biodiversity in regard to current and future anthropogenic land uses.		[Thornbrugh, Darren] USDAs Forest Serv, Eastern Reg Off, Milwaukee, WI 53202 USA; [Infante, Dana] Michigan State Univ, Dept Fisheries & Wildlife, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Tsang, Yinphan] Univ Hawaii, Nat Resources & Environm Management, Manoa, HI 96822 USA; [Thornbrugh, Darren] USDAs Forest Serv, Eastern Reg Off, Milwaukee, WI 53202 USA								1							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000978130500001		
J	Huang, Kuo-Chin; Lee, Jai-Wei; Hu, Yi-Fan; Ballantyne, Rolissa; Liu, Chun-Hung								Effects of<i> Aspergillus-meal</i> prebiotic diet on the growth performance, health status and gut microbiota of Asian seabass,<i> Lates</i><i> calcarifer</i>								FISH & SHELLFISH IMMUNOLOGY				136						108696	10.1016/j.fsi.2023.108696			MAY 2023	2023	In this study, the growth performance, health status and intestinal microbiota of juvenile Asian seabass, Lates calcarifer, were assessed after dietary administration of a prebiotic product obtained from fermented Aspergillus orizae, Fermacto (R). Asian seabass were fed three diets; control (without Aspergillus-meal prebiotic), 0.2% and 0.3% Aspergillus-meal prebiotic for 56 days. Fish were raised in freshwater with acceptable water quality. No significant differences were found in the growth performance and composition of dorsal fish muscle among all groups. Fish fed diets supplemented with 0.3% of Aspergillus-meal prebiotic had a significantly higher survival rate after being challenged with V. alginolyticus than fish fed with the control diet. Supplementation of the Aspergillus-meal prebiotic significantly improved immune responses by inducing higher respiratory burst, superoxide dismutase, phagocytic and lysozyme activity compared to the control group. In addition, prebiotic doses significantly induced an up-regulation of heat shock cognate 70 kDa protein (hsp70) in the liver compared to the control group. Signaling pathways were also affected with significantly higher gene expression of complement c-3 (c3), mechanistic target of rapamycin (mtor), and mammalian lethal with SEC13 protein 8 (mlst-8) in the liver of fish fed 0.3% Aspergillus prebiotic. The pro-inflammatory gene, tumor necrosis factor (tnf) and antiinflammatory gene, transforming growth factor beta-1 (tfg-beta 1) were significantly higher in the head kidney of fish offered prebiotic diets. Fish receiving Aspergillus-meal prebiotic revealed significantly higher expression of Mx gene 24 h post nervous necrosis virus injection compared to the control. Additionally, the alpha-diversity of gut microbiota, including genus, Pielou's evenness, Shannon diversity index, and Margalef's species richness were significantly higher in fish fed 0.3% Aspergillus-meal prebiotic than the control group. The principal component analysis eigenvector plots showed that a high abundance of beneficial bacteria, such as Entercoccus faecium, Lactococcus lactis, Macrococcus caseolyticus and Vagococcus fluvialis, along with potentially pathogenic bacteria, such as Staphylococcus sciuri and L. garvieae subsp. garvieae were present in fish treated with Aspergillus-meal prebiotic. Although dietary Aspergillus-meal prebiotic did not improve the growth performance of Asian seabass, 0.3% of Aspergillus-meal prebiotic is recommended to elevate the immunological status of fish.		[Huang, Kuo-Chin; Lee, Jai-Wei; Ballantyne, Rolissa] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Trop Agr & Int Cooperat, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan; [Hu, Yi-Fan; Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 91201, Taiwan; [Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 912, Taiwan; [Liu, Chun-Hung] Natl Pingtung Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Aquaculture, Pingtung 912, Taiwan								2							Fisheries; Immunology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000965596200001		
J	Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li								Effects of habitat factors on the plant diversity on naturally-restored wind farm slopes								PEERJ				11						e14912	10.7717/peerj.14912			MAR 1 2023	2023	This study investigated naturally-restored plant communities on wind farm slopes and analyzed the effects of various habitat factors on the plant diversity. The findings provide a technical support for the ecological restoration of mountainous slopes.Twenty-one slopes on five wind farms were selected and the characteristics of the habitat, including slope position, slope aspect, slope gradient, altitude, years since restoration, and plant communities, were recorded. The species richness of the plant communities and the vegetation diversity indexes of these wind farms were measured and calculated, including the Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), Pielou's species evenness index (J), and Margalef's richness index (R). The key factors influencing plant diversity were identified using a stepwise regression analysis. A total of 36 families, 54 genera, and 57 species of plants were identified in this study with the Gramineae, Compositae, Rosaceae, Liliaceae, and Juglandaceae families the mostly predominant. Cynodon dactylon, Rubus lambertianus Ser., and Lindera glauca were the dominant species of herbs, shrubs, and trees, respectively. The highest number of species were found on lower slopes, slopes with semi-sunny aspects, slopes with gradients 30-50 degrees, elevation below 500 m, and on slopes with at least five years since restoration. The plant diversity H' and R tended to be higher on lower slopes than on upper slopes, and higher on slopes with semi-shady aspects than on slopes with semi-sunny aspects (P < 0.05). Vegetation diversity increased with the years since restoration. Slope position and slope aspect were identified as the primary influencing factors, and the H' and R indexes were major indicators of changes in plant diversity on mountainous slopes.		[Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Civil Engn Architecture & Environm, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Pengcheng; Yu, Hai; Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan; Ma, Qiang; Tao, Gaoliang; Wang, Qin; Jiang, Weiwei; Ma, Li] Innovat Demonstrat Base Ecol Environm Geotech & Ec, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan] Hubei Univ Technol, Sch Civil Engn Architecture & Environm, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Henglin; Wan, Juan] Innovat Demonstrat Base Ecol Environm Geotech & Ec, Wuhan, Peoples R China								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000944024200001		
J	Hayeewachi, Lutfee; Rodcharoen, Eknarin; Wangkulangkul, Kringpaka								Bioengineering by the alien false mussel <i>Mytilopsis sallei</i> (Bivalvia: Dreissenidae) affects small-scale distribution pattern of benthic macroinvertebrates in an estuarine system								MARINE BIOLOGY RESEARCH				18	9-10			577	588		10.1080/17451000.2023.2169465			NOV 26 2022	2022	The false mussel Mytilopsis sallei (Recluz, 1849) invaded the Songkhla Lagoon System in southern Thailand more than two decades ago. The false mussel forms dense beds, creating three-dimensional habitat structures on soft substrata which harbour a myriad of organisms. We compare a community of benthic macroinvertebrates in a habitat modified by M. sallei with a community in an unmodified habitat. The study focused on a canal feeding into the southern end of the lagoon system and covered three seasons (north-east monsoon season, dry season and south-west monsoon season) in a 12-month period. A total of 26 taxa were present in the modified habitat and 22 in the unmodified habitat. In the modified habitat, abundances of other byssally attached bivalves, flatworms and some species of amphipods were more than an order of magnitude greater than abundances in the unmodified habitat. Differences in the community composition between habitats were observed but were dependent on sampling location and time. Although the modified habitat hosted greater numbers of species and individuals in most comparisons, the Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's evenness index were lower for this habitat as it tended to be dominated by a few taxa. The results highlight the role of M. sallei as a habitat engineer that promotes species richness and abundance of some benthic macroinvertebrates. Nonetheless, temporal variation in environmental drivers, especially salinity, might also be important in determining biodiversity in the studied estuarine system.		[Hayeewachi, Lutfee; Wangkulangkul, Kringpaka] Prince Songkla Univ, Fac Sci, Div Biol Sci, Hat Yai, Songkhla, Thailand; [Rodcharoen, Eknarin] Prince Songkla Univ, Fac Nat Resources, Aquat Sci & Innovat Management Div, Hat Yai, Songkhla, Thailand; [Rodcharoen, Eknarin] Prince Songkla Univ, Fac Nat Resources, Discipline Excellence Sustainable Aquaculture, Hat Yai, Songkhla, Thailand; [Wangkulangkul, Kringpaka] Prince Songkla Univ, Fac Sci, Div Biol Sci, Hat Yai, Songkhla, Thailand								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000934441000001		
J	Oyeku, Oyeshina G. G.; Anyaele, Okorie O. O.; Akindele, Emmanuel O. O.; Atobatele, Oluwatosin E. E.; Adeniyi, Akinkunle V. V.								Biological water quality of an impaired tropical river: the macrozoobenthos approach								BIOLOGIA				78	8			2131	2145		10.1007/s11756-023-01346-1			AUG 2023	2023	Human activities are major drivers of water quality degradation, especially in densely populated cities. The water quality of the Ona River in Nigeria was studied by collecting and analyzing water and macrozoobenthic samples from 12 sites along the flow of the river. The biological water quality of the river was determined using its faunal composition, biodiversity indices, functional feeding guilds, and autotrophy to heterotrophy index. With the exception of sulphate, all the water parameters analyzed had higher values during the dry season than in the wet season, and most of them showed significant differences in their seasonal variations (p < 0.05). Water parameters including electrical conductivity, dissolved oxygen, phosphate and nitrate were above the recommended limits for aquatic life. Margalef diversity, Shannon-Wiener diversity as well as Pielou's evenness indices, all indicated a polluted freshwater system. The occurrence and high abundance of stress-tolerant animals like Chironomus and Tubifex species further established that the Ona River was polluted. The Ona River's low taxa richness (20 taxa) indicates that it was moderately impacted, whereas the absence of the stress-sensitive Ephemeroptera-Plecoptaera-Trichoptera taxa indicates that it was severely impacted. Only two functional feeding guilds (scrapers and collector-gatherers) were present in the Ona River, and the autotrophy to heterotrophy index indicates that it was an autotrophic system, which is typical of impacted freshwater systems. To halt the river's further deterioration and enhance its biological water quality, necessary measures are recommended, such as appropriate waste management practices and restoration of the river's corridor for riparian forestation.		[Oyeku, Oyeshina G. G.; Atobatele, Oluwatosin E. E.] Bowen Univ, Pure & Appl Biol Programme, PMB 284, Iwo, Osun State, Nigeria; [Anyaele, Okorie O. O.] Univ Ibadan, Dept Zool, Entomol Unit, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria; [Akindele, Emmanuel O. O.] Obafemi Awolowo Univ, Dept Zool, Ife, Nigeria; [Adeniyi, Akinkunle V. V.] Fed Univ Agr, Dept Pure & Appl Zool, PMB 2240, Abeokuta, Nigeria; [Oyeku, Oyeshina G. G.] Bowen Univ, Pure & Appl Biol Programme, PMB 284, Iwo, Osun State, Nigeria								0							Biology	WOS:000931778100001		
J	Pang, Ka-Lai; Chen, I-An; Chiang, Michael Wai-Lun; Shaumi, Ami; Hsieh, Sung-Yuan; Guo, Sheng-Yu								Arenicolous marine fungi of sandy beaches of Taiwan								BOTANICA MARINA				66	2			131	139		10.1515/bot-2022-0057			APR 25 2023	2023	This study investigated the morphological diversity of arenicolous marine fungi (only those forming fruiting bodies on sand grains) at 11 sandy beaches in Taiwan. The species of Corollospora were identified by ascospore morphology and confirmed through a phylogenetic analysis of the 28S rDNA with other published sequences. The phylogenetic analysis revealed four previously unknown clades of Corollospora spp. related to C. portsaidica, while differences in ascospore morphology of the isolates in these four clades were observed. A total of 13 species of arenicolous marine fungi was identified from the 11 sandy beaches, including two Arenariomyces spp., nine Corollospora spp. (including four unknown Corollospora clades), Kohlmeyeriella crassa and Carbosphaerella cf sp. Taan Beach had the highest species richness (eight species), followed by Yongzhen Sea Park and Pisirian (five species each). The Shannon's diversity index revealed the highest diversity at Taan Beach (1.51) over Pisirian (1.44), but the diversity was more even at the latter site (Pielou's evenness index = 0.9) compared with the former (0.73). Non-metric multidimensional scaling suggests that there was generally a divide in the fungal community composition between the east and the west coasts of Taiwan.		[Pang, Ka-Lai; Chen, I-An; Shaumi, Ami; Guo, Sheng-Yu] Natl Taiwan Ocean Univ, Inst Marine Biol, 2 Pei Ning Rd, Keelung 202301, Taiwan; [Pang, Ka-Lai; Chen, I-An; Shaumi, Ami; Guo, Sheng-Yu] Natl Taiwan Ocean Univ, Ctr Excellence Oceans, 2 Pei Ning Rd, Keelung 202301, Taiwan; [Chiang, Michael Wai-Lun] Food Ind Res & Dev Inst, Bioresource Collect & Res Ctr, Kowloon Tong, 83 Tat Chee Ave, Hsinchu 30062, Peoples R China; [Hsieh, Sung-Yuan] Food Ind Res & Dev Inst, Bioresource Collect & Res Ctr, 331 Shih Pin Rd, Hsinchu 30062, Taiwan; [Pang, Ka-Lai] Natl Taiwan Ocean Univ, Inst Marine Biol, 2 Pei Ning Rd, Keelung 202301, Taiwan; [Pang, Ka-Lai] Natl Taiwan Ocean Univ, Ctr Excellence Oceans, 2 Pei Ning Rd, Keelung 202301, Taiwan								2							Plant Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000936610800001		
J	Sesnie, Steven E.; Espinosa, Carlos I.; Jara-Guerrero, Andrea K.; Tapia-Armijos, Maria F.								Ensemble Machine Learning for Mapping Tree Species Alpha-Diversity Using Multi-Source Satellite Data in an Ecuadorian Seasonally Dry Forest								REMOTE SENSING				15	3					583	10.3390/rs15030583			FEB 2023	2023	The increased variety of satellite remote sensing platforms creates opportunities for estimating tropical forest diversity needed for environmental decision-making. As little as 10% of the original seasonally dry tropical forest (SDTF) remains for Ecuador, Peru, and Colombia. Remnant forests show high rates of species endemism, but experience degradation from climate change, wood-cutting, and livestock-grazing. Forest census data provide a vital resource for examining remote sensing methods to estimate diversity levels. We used spatially referenced trees >= 5 cm in diameter and simulated 0.10 ha plots measured from a 9 ha SDTF in southwestern Ecuador to compare machine learning (ML) models for six alpha-diversity indices. We developed 1 m tree canopy height and elevation models from stem mapped trees, at a scale conventionally derived from light detection and ranging (LiDAR). We then used an ensemble ML approach comparing single-and combined-sensor models from RapidEye, Sentinel-2 and interpolated canopy height and topography surfaces. Validation data showed that combined models often outperformed single-sensor approaches. Combined sensor and model ensembles for tree species richness, Shannon's H, inverse Simpson's, unbiased Simpson's, and Fisher's alpha indices typically showed lower root mean squared error (RMSE) and increased goodness of fit (R-2). Pielou's J, a measure of evenness, was poorly predicted. Mapped tree species richness (R2 = 0.54, F = 27.3, p = < 0.001) and Shannon's H' (R-2 = 0.54, F = 26.9, p = < 0.001) showed the most favorable agreement with field validation observations (n = 25). Small-scale model experiments revealed essential relationships between dry forest tree diversity and data from multiple satellite sensors with repeated global coverage that can help guide larger-scale biodiversity mapping efforts.		[Sesnie, Steven E.] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Biol Sci, Albuquerque, NM 87102 USA; [Espinosa, Carlos I.; Jara-Guerrero, Andrea K.; Tapia-Armijos, Maria F.] Univ Tecn Particular Loja, Dept Ciencias Biol, Loja 1101608, Ecuador; [Sesnie, Steven E.] US Fish & Wildlife Serv, Div Biol Sci, Albuquerque, NM 87102 USA								2							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Remote Sensing; Imaging Science & Photographic Technology	WOS:000932912300001		
J	Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed; Vinobaba, Periyathamby; Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela; Khan, Syed Ajmal								Fish diversity and assemblage in the Batticaloa lagoon, Sri Lanka								JOURNAL OF FISH BIOLOGY				102	4			773	793		10.1111/jfb.15314			APR 2023	2023	The Batticaloa Lagoon (Sri Lanka's third-largest brackish waterbody) has suffered habitat degradation and water quality deterioration during the past 30 years due to various anthropogenic activities. Despite Sri Lanka having 40 lagoons, inventories on the lagoon ichthyofauna are rather meagre and data on fish diversity and assemblages are scarce. An assessment of fish diversity is essential to maintain the ecological stability and lagoon fisheries. This study examined the fish fauna of the Batticaloa lagoon considering the northern and southern regions of the lagoon and various depths through a 3-year survey (2017-2019) and documented the dominant and rare fish species. In addition, biodiversity measures, species assemblages and the role of environmental parameters on the distribution of fishes were documented. Various diversity indices (the Margalef richness index, the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, the dominance index, the taxonomic diversity index, the average taxonomic distinctness index and the total taxonomic distinctness index) were calculated. Analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) was used to examine the seasonal and regional differences in the fish assemblages. The survey showed the occurrence of 96 species belonging to 40 families and 11 orders. Ambassis gymnocephalus was the most abundant fish species (8.7% of the total number of fishes collected) followed by Etroplus suratensis (6.8%), Arius maculatus (6.1%), Gerres filamentosus (5.3%), Oreochromis niloticus (4.6%) and Gerres abbreviates (3.9%). Dasyatis uarnak (0.02%), Acanthurus gahhm (0.03%), Alectis ciliaris (0.04%) and Crossorhombus valderostratus (0.08%) were considered as rare species which constitute less than 0.1% of the total while D. uarnak was considered a doubletons species (represented twice in the whole sample of 16 stations). Two types of species assemblages, one in the northern region and one in the southern region, were evident in a dendrogram (Based on the samples were collected on each region dendrogram were plotted with respect to sites then finally dendrogram of one region pratly connected by other region) based on sample composition similarity estimated with a Bray-Curtis matrix and nonmetric multidimensional scaling plots. The Bray-Curtis dissimilarity was 59.03% between the two regions, indicating statistically significant differences in assemblages (ANOSIM R 0.801; P < 0.01). The northern region of the lagoon had a higher number of species, density, Margalef richness, Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, taxonomic diversity, taxonomic distinctness and total taxonomic distinctness compared to the southern region. The northern region showed significantly higher levels of salinity and dissolved oxygen (DO) and the southern region higher temperature, turbidity, phosphates and nitrates. The best subset of biota and environmental variables [BEST (BIO-ENV)] test showed a significant relationship between fish assemblage and environmental parameters. Distance-based linear model analysis showed a significant relationship between fish assemblage and the environmental parameters salinity, temperature, pH and DO. The sequential test of this analysis showed the environmental parameters to explain about 74.9% (R-2) of the total variation. The bioenvironmental model developed was found to be appropriate. Thirteen species were found to be influential as they explained the overall fish distribution pattern with a Spearman rank correlation of 0.951. Ten groups of coherent species were also identified in the study area. In stations having anthropogenic activities, the fish diversity was low. The fish fauna of the Batticaloa lagoon should be monitored periodically to protect the fishery resources here. An understanding of the role that environment plays in structuring the fish assemblage in the Batticaloa lagoon and locations with critical habitats will be of great importance in the conservation and management of fishery resources in this lagoon. However, as monitoring only the dominant species may fail to pick up on important impacts affecting the less common species, it should be done using diversity indices and rare fish species. Monitoring is imperative in view of the livelihood of the fishers this lagoon supports and the health of the local people, as fish is a healthy food. The fishery resources of this lagoon must be protected for posterity with appropriate management measures.		[Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed; Vinobaba, Periyathamby] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai, Sri Lanka; [Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela] La Trobe Univ, Dept Ecol Environm & Evolut, Melbourne Campus, Melbourne, Vic, Australia; [Kularatne, Ranil Kavindra Asela] Univ Colombo, Fac Grad Studies, Colombo, Sri Lanka; [Khan, Syed Ajmal] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai, India; [Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai 30350, Sri Lanka; [Harris, Jalaldeen Mohamed] Eastern Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Zool, Vantharumoolai 30350, Sri Lanka								0							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000922893000001		
J	Dou, Pengpeng; Miao, Zhengzhou; Wang, Jie; Huang, Jing; Gao, Qian; Wang, Kaili; Wang, Kun								The key to temperate savanna restoration is to increase plant species richness reasonably								FRONTIERS IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE				11						1112779	10.3389/fenvs.2023.1112779			JAN 13 2023	2023	Changes in species composition and diversity-productivity relationships during vegetation succession are of great significance for the restoration of degraded grasslands. However, the human intervention of grassland restoration mostly considers the single ecological (diversity) or production (biomass) function of grasslands, and does not fully consider the relationships between the two to improve the restoration effects. In this study, three vegetation types (desert grassland, sandy grassland and temperate savanna) were considered to simulate the three stages of restoration of degraded temperate savanna (early, middle and late restoration). Changes in species composition, diversity, and diversity-productivity relationships during the temperate savanna restoration were explored through spatiotemporal substitution. The results showed that with the progress of succession, xerophytes decreased significantly, mesophytes and hygrophytes increased, C4 plants decreased gradually, and C3 plants increased. The change of species richness was the main reason for community differences in the process of community succession, and species replacement mainly occurred between communities in the early and middle stages of succession. Species richness increased significantly from early to late stage of restoration. Latitude was significantly negatively correlated with species diversity. In the process of vegetation restoration, the impact of species richness, Pielou's evenness, and beta-diversity on biomass gradually developed positively and continued to increase, while the Simpson index showed the opposite effect. This study provides references for the restoration of temperate savanna and emphasizes the ecological and productive functions of the grassland should be taken into account in the restoration strategy.		[Dou, Pengpeng; Miao, Zhengzhou; Wang, Jie; Huang, Jing; Gao, Qian; Wang, Kaili; Wang, Kun] China Agr Univ, Coll Grassland Sci & Technol, Grassland Ecol Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Dou, Pengpeng; Miao, Zhengzhou; Wang, Jie; Huang, Jing; Gao, Qian; Wang, Kaili; Wang, Kun] GuYuan Natl Grassland Ecosyst Field Stn, Guyuan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jie; Wang, Kun] China Agr Univ, Coll Grassland Sci & Technol, Grassland Ecol Lab, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jie; Wang, Kun] GuYuan Natl Grassland Ecosyst Field Stn, Guyuan, Peoples R China								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000923009400001		
J	Zhang, Mingwei; Liu, Chunying; Zhang, Caijie; Zhu, Haiyun; Wan, Jiteng; Liu, Xiaoshou								Response of macrofaunal assemblages to different pollution pressures of two types of ports								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				146						109858	10.1016/j.ecolind.2022.109858			FEB 2023	2023	Pollution status and benthic ecological quality of the two types of ports were assessed based on heavy metals and macrofaunal assemblages. Macrofaunal abundance and biomass in the industrial port were significantly higher than those in the fishing port. The dominant species of the two ports were Echinocardium cordatum and Nephtys oligobranchia. The AZTI marine biotic index (AMBI), multivariate AMBI, and Shannon-Wiener diversity index demonstrated that the benthic ecological quality of the two ports was moderate to good. The benthic ecological quality of the distant port sites was better than those of the nearby port sites. The geoaccumulation index and the Hakanson potential ecological risk index indicated that mercury posed a serious threat to port sediment pollu-tion. AMBI, multivariate AMBI, and Shannon-Wiener diversity index were not good indicators for heavy metal pollution. The dominant species and Pielou's evenness index were significantly correlated with heavy metal pollution and were good biological indicators.		[Zhang, Mingwei; Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Mingwei; Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Frontiers Sci Ctr Deep Ocean Multispheres & Earth, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Mingwei; Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Liu, Chunying; Zhang, Caijie; Zhu, Haiyun; Wan, Jiteng] Ocean Univ China, Key Lab Marine Chem Theory & Technol, Minist Educ, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China; [Liu, Chunying; Zhang, Caijie; Zhu, Haiyun; Wan, Jiteng] Ocean Univ China, Coll Chem & Chem Engn, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiaoshou] Ocean Univ China, Inst Evolut & Marine Biodivers, 5 Yushan Rd, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								1							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000915627100001		
J	Haas, Valentin; Rodehutscord, Markus; Camarinha-Silva, Amelia; Bennewitz, Joern								Inferring causal structures of gut microbiota diversity and feed efficiency traits in poultry using Bayesian learning and genomic structural equation models								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE				101						skad044	10.1093/jas/skad044			JAN 3 2023	2023	Feed and phosphorus (P) efficiency are of increasing importance in poultry breeding. It has been shown recently that these efficiency traits are influenced by the gut microbiota composition of the birds. The efficiency traits and the gut microbiota composition are partly under control of the host genome. Thus, the gut microbiota composition can be seen as a mediator trait between the host genome and the efficiency traits. The present study used data from 749 individuals of a Japanese quail F2 cross. The birds were genotyped for 4k single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and trait recorded for P utilization (PU) and P retention (PR), body weight gain (BWG), and feed per gain ratio (F:G). The gut microbiota composition was characterized by targeted amplicon sequencing. The alpha diversity was calculated as the Pielou's evenness index (J'). A stable Bayesian network was established using a Hill-Climbing learning algorithm. Pielou's evenness index was placed as the most upstream trait and BWG as the most downstream trait, with direct and indirect links via PR, PU, and F:G. The direct and indirect effects between J', PU, and PR were quantified with structural equation models (SEM), which revealed a causal link from J' to PU and from PU to PR. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) linkage mapping revealed three genome-wide significant QTL regions for these traits with in total 49 trait-associated SNP within the QTL regions. SEM association mapping separated the total SNP effect for a trait into a direct effect and indirect effects mediated by upstream traits. Although the indirect effects were in general small, they contributed to the total SNP effect in some cases. This enabled us to detect some shared genetic effects. The method applied allows for the detection of shared genetic architecture of quantitative traits and microbiota compositions. This study investigated the complex interrelationship between gut microbiota composition and feed and phosphorus efficiency traits in Japanese quail. The results offered new insight into the traits' hierarchical structure and shared genetic architecture. Lay Summary Feed efficiency and phosphorus efficiency are of increasing importance in poultry breeding. It was frequently shown that next to the birds' genomes also the gut microbiota composition is important for these efficiency traits. The gut microbiota composition is a mediator between the genomes of the birds and their efficiency traits. In the present study, an approach was taken to consider the animal's gut microbiota diversity, efficiency traits, and the genomes of the animals together in a causal network to decipher the mediator role between the traits. Growing Japanese quail were used as model species. A stable network could be established that placed the diversity of the gut microbiota composition at the forefront, with direct and indirect links to other traits like phosphorus utilization and retention, feed per gain ratio, and growth. Together with genome scans, the results confirmed the mediator role of the gut microbiota composition because several traits associated variants affected the efficiency traits directly and indirectly via the gut microbiota composition.		[Haas, Valentin; Rodehutscord, Markus; Camarinha-Silva, Amelia; Bennewitz, Joern] Univ Hohenheim, Inst Anim Sci, D-70599 Stuttgart, Germany; [Haas, Valentin] Univ Hohenheim, Inst Anim Sci, D-70599 Stuttgart, Germany								1							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:001023054100003		
J	Zaharieva, Radoslava								PARASITES AND PARASITE COMMUNITIES OF<i> Squalius</i><i> orpheus</i> Kottelat & Economidis, 2006 FROM THE CHEPELARSKA RIVER								SCIENTIFIC PAPERS-SERIES D-ANIMAL SCIENCE				66	2			696	705					2023	2023	In the autumn of 2022, 37 specimens of Orpheus dace (Squalius orpheus Kottelat & Economidis, 2006) were subjected to helminthological examination. The fish were caught from the lower section of the Chepelarska River (in the area of Katunitsa village). Three endohelminth species were isolated -Acanthocephalus tenuirostris (Achmerov & Dombrovskaja-Achmerova, 1941) Yamaguti, 1963 (class Trematoda), Contracaecum sp., Rhabdochona denudata (Dujardin, 1845) Railliet, 1916 (class Nematoda). The component community and infracommunity of Orpheus dace were reviewed. One core species (Contracaecum sp.; P% = 32.43) was found in the component community of Sq. orpheus. Brillouin's diversity index (HB), Pielou's evenness index (E), and Simpson's dominance index (C) were calculated. The research aims to provide data on the helminths and helminth communities of Orpheus dace from the freshwater ecosystem of the Chepelarska River. The studied biotope (Katunitsa) is a new habitat for the found helminth species of Orpheus dace.		[Zaharieva, Radoslava] Paisij Hilendarski Univ Plovdiv, Dept Agroecol & Environm Protect, 12 Mendeleev Blvd, Plovdiv 4000, Bulgaria; [Zaharieva, Radoslava] Paisij Hilendarski Univ Plovdiv, Dept Agroecol & Environm Protect, 12 Mendeleev Blvd, Plovdiv 4000, Bulgaria								0							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:001133092700062		
J	Wang, Jian; Wang, Ben; Liang, Chao; Jin, Caifei; Shen, Huiliang								Analysis of Lower-Limb Ulcers in Participants with Leprosy Sequelae Using Metabolomics and 16S Ribosomal DNA Sequencing								CLINICAL COSMETIC AND INVESTIGATIONAL DERMATOLOGY				16				3465	3480		10.2147/CCID.S441000			2023	2023	Purpose: This study investigated microbiome and metabolome differences between ulcerated tissues and normal skin from the lower limbs of participants with leprosy.Patients and Methods: Ulcerated tissues and surrounding normal skin were collected from the lower limbs of 28 participants with leprosy who had been cured. The 16S ribosomal DNA sequencing analysis of the samples was conducted with the Illumina NovaSeq platform to analyze the community structure and diversity of microorganisms on the skin surface, followed by non-targeted metabolomic analysis with LC-MS technology. Next, differential metabolites were statistically screened, followed by metabolic pathway analysis. The Spearman method was used to analyze the correlation between differential microbiota and differential metabolites.Results: Compared to normal skin, ulcerated tissues showed a decrease in microbial alpha diversity (species richness, homogeneity, and sequencing depth), without significant differences (observed species, Chao1, Shannon, Simpson, and Pielou's evenness index; P > 0.05). Conversely, Jaccard distance demonstrated that sample beta-diversity exhibited a certain degree of clustering (P < 0.05), with significant differences between the two groups. The results of LEfSe analysis revealed that compared to the normal skin, the ulcerated tissues had significantly decreased microbial abundance of Flavobacteriaceae, Flavobacteriales, Lachnospiraceae, Lachnospirales, Enterobacterales, Acinetobacter, and Moraxellaceae, which might be associated with the ulcerative state. The Spearman correlation analysis suggested a strong correlation between skin metabolome and skin microbiome.Conclusion: For participants with leprosy sequelae, skin microecology and metabolites are disturbed and species diversity and homogeneity are reduced in lower-limb ulcers, and the types of skin metabolites are dependent on the microbiota.		[Wang, Jian; Shen, Huiliang] Zhejiang Prov Dermatol Hosp, Dept Dermatol, 61 Wuyuan St, Huzhou 313200, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ben] Zhejiang Prov Dermatol Hosp, Dept Informat Technol, Huzhou 313200, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Liang, Chao] Zhejiang Prov Dermatol Hosp, Dept Surg, Huzhou 313200, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Jin, Caifei] Zhejiang Prov Dermatol Hosp, Dept Med Technol, Huzhou 313200, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Shen, Huiliang] Zhejiang Prov Dermatol Hosp, Dept Dermatol, 61 Wuyuan St, Huzhou 313200, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								0							Dermatology	WOS:001123739400001		
J	Bora, Sudipta Sankar; Hazarika, Dibya Jyoti; Churaman, Amrita; Naorem, Romen S.; Dasgupta, Abhisek; Chakrabarty, Ranjana; Kalita, Hemen; Barooah, Madhumita								Common scab disease-induced changes in geocaulosphere microbiome assemblages and functional processes in landrace potato (<i>Solanum tuberosum</i> var. Rongpuria) of Assam, India								ARCHIVES OF MICROBIOLOGY				205	1					44	10.1007/s00203-022-03380-0			JAN 2023	2023	Common scab (CS) caused by pathogenic Streptomyces spp. plays a decisive role in the qualitative and quantitative production of potatoes worldwide. Although the CS pathogen is present in Assam's soil, disease signs and symptoms are less obvious in the landrace Rongpuria potatoes that indicate an interesting interaction between the plant and the geocaulosphere microbial population. Toward this, a comparative metagenomics study was performed to elucidate the geocaulosphere microbiome assemblages and functions of low CS-severe (LSG) and moderately severe (MSG) potato plants. Alpha diversity indices showed that CS occurrence modulated microbiome composition and decreased overall microbial abundances. Functional analysis involving cluster of orthologous groups (COG) too confirmed reduced microbial metabolism under disease incidence. The top-three most dominant genera were Pseudomonas (relative abundance: 2.79% in LSG; 12.31% in MSG), Streptomyces (2.55% in LSG; 5.28% in MSG), and Pantoea (2.30% in LSG; 3.51% in MSG). As shown by the high Pielou's J evenness index, the potato geocaulosphere core microbiome was adaptive and resilient to CS infection. The plant growth-promoting traits and potential antagonistic activity of major taxa (Pseudomonads, non-pathogenic Streptomyces spp., and others) against the CS pathogen, i.e., Streptomyces scabiei, point toward selective microbial recruitment and colonization strategy by the plants to its own advantage. KEGG Orthology analysis showed that the CS infection resulted in high abundances of ATP-binding cassette transporters and a two-component system, ubiquitous to the transportation and regulation of metabolites. As compared to the LSG metagenome, the MSG counterpart had a higher representation of important PGPTs related to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminase, IAA production, betaine utilization, and siderophore production.		[Bora, Sudipta Sankar; Dasgupta, Abhisek; Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, DBT North East Ctr Agr Biotechnol DBT NECAB, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Hazarika, Dibya Jyoti; Churaman, Amrita; Naorem, Romen S.; Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Agr Biotechnol, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Chakrabarty, Ranjana; Kalita, Hemen] Assam Agr Univ, Reg Agr Res Stn, Shillongani, Assam, India; [Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, DBT North East Ctr Agr Biotechnol DBT NECAB, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Agr Biotechnol, Jorhat, Assam, India								1							Microbiology	WOS:000905614900001		
J	Bora, Sudipta Sankar; Naorem, Romen Singh; Hazarika, Dibya Jyoti; Dasgupta, Abhisek; Churaman, Amrita; Gogoi, Manuranjan; Barooah, Madhumita								Agricultural Land Use Influences Bacteriophage Community Diversity, Richness, and Heterogeneity								CURRENT MICROBIOLOGY				80	1					10	10.1007/s00284-022-03129-4			JAN 2023	2023	The last two decades have witnessed a large-scale conversion of crop cultivation areas into small and mid-sized tea plantations in Assam, India. Agricultural land-use pattern positively or negatively influences native hydrology and above- and belowground biodiversity. Very little is known about the effect of agricultural land-use patterns on the soil virus (especially, bacteriophage) community structure and function. This metagenomic-based study evaluated the rhizosphere viral community structure of three interlinked cultivation areas, viz., mixed cropping area (coded as CP1), tea-seed orchard (CP2), and monocropping tea cultivation (CP3). The bacteriophages belonged to four major classes with the dominance of Malgrandaviricetes (CP1: 79.37%; CP2: 64.62%; CP3: 4.85%) followed by Caudoviricetes (CP1: 20.49%; CP2: 35.22%; CP3: 90.29%), Faserviricetes (CP1: 0.03%; CP2: 0.08%; CP3: 3.88%), and Tectiliviricetes (CP1: 0.12%; CP2: 0.07%; CP3: 0.97%). Microviruses dominated the phage population in both CP1 and CP2, representing 79.35% and 64.59% of total bacteriophage abundance. Both CP1 and CP2 had higher bacteriophage richness (species richness, R in CP1: 65; R in CP2: 66) and lower evenness (Pielou's evenness index, J in CP1: 0.531; J in CP2: 0.579) compared to the CP3 (R: 30; J: 0.902). Principal component analysis of edaphic soil factors and bacteriophage community structure showed a reverse-proportional correlation between the levels of Al saturation, and exchangeable Al3+ ions with that of soil pH, and bacteriophage abundance. Our study indicates that monocropping tea cultivation soil bears less viral richness, abundance, and heterogeneity.		[Bora, Sudipta Sankar; Dasgupta, Abhisek; Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, DBT North East Ctr Agr Biotechnol NECAB, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Naorem, Romen Singh; Hazarika, Dibya Jyoti; Churaman, Amrita; Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Agr Biotechnol, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Gogoi, Manuranjan] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Tea Husb & Technol, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, DBT North East Ctr Agr Biotechnol NECAB, Jorhat, Assam, India; [Barooah, Madhumita] Assam Agr Univ, Dept Agr Biotechnol, Jorhat, Assam, India								0							Microbiology	WOS:000890288200004		
J	Coayla-P, Pastor; Alexander Cheneaux-D, Andre; Viviana Moreno-S, Claudia; Elizabeth Cruz-R, Cynthia; Walter Colque-R, Eusebio; Damborenea, Cristina								Littoral macrobenthic communities and water quality in El Pane Reservoir, Arequipa, Peru								NEOTROPICAL BIODIVERSITY				8	1			99	107		10.1080/23766808.2022.2040276			DEC 31 2022	2022	High Andean ponds and reservoirs are among the least-studied environments. We evaluated the composition of littoral macrobenthos and how it is affected by the physicochemical conditions of the water in El Pane reservoir (Peru), located at 4,550 m.a.s.l. Samples were taken between November 2017 and October 2018 from three zones in the reservoir: low (downstream), middle and high (upstream); two of these zones with fish farms (low and middle) and one zone without fish farms (high). The following physicochemical parameters of the water were measured: dissolved oxygen, conductivity, pH and temperature. The macrobenthic community was analysed through diversity indices such as Shannon-Wiener (H'), Simpson's dominance index (D), Pielou's evenness (J'), true diversity (D-1), and richness (S). The influence of the physicochemical variables on the macrobenthos was estimated by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS). Dissolved oxygen was found to have lower values (<0.5 mg/l) than specified in the Environmental Quality Standards (EQS). Macroinvertebrate richness for the whole reservoir was 17 families, and the family with highest relative abundance was Chironomidae (42.24% in the low zone, 51% in the middle zone and 40.43% in the high zone). The indices showed greater species richness in the high zone, where there are no fish farms. Dissolved oxygen and conductivity were the main factors determining macrobenthos distribution and composition.		[Coayla-P, Pastor; Alexander Cheneaux-D, Andre; Viviana Moreno-S, Claudia; Elizabeth Cruz-R, Cynthia; Walter Colque-R, Eusebio] Univ Nacl San Agustin, Dept Acad Biol, Lab Hidrobiol, Arequipa, Peru; [Damborenea, Cristina] FCNyM UNLP, CONICET, Museo La Plata, Div Zool Invertebrados, La Plata, Argentina; [Damborenea, Cristina] FCNyM UNLP, CONICET, Museo La Plata, Div Zool Invertebrados, La Plata, Argentina								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000760546700001		
J	Zhu, Hao; Cao, Kun; Chen, Xiaolong; Liv, Xingguo; Zhang, Xiaoke								Effects of suspended ecological beds on phytoplankton community structure in Baiyangdian Lake, China								JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY				37	1			189	202		10.1080/02705060.2022.2036646			DEC 31 2022	2022	To address the issues of submerged vegetation restoration in the deep-water area of Baiyangdian Lake, a type of suspended ecological bed was developed, which was constructed with aquatic plants, ropes and supporting poles. The depth of a suspended ecological bed could be adjusted based on the water level. From July to November 2019, the phytoplankton community structure in the water around the suspended beds was continually monitored, and the effects of the submerged plants present in the suspended beds on the phytoplankton community structure in the deep-water area of the lake were studied. The results showed that Myriophyllum spicatum L. grew well in the suspended beds, with 95% survival after 60 d. The maximum biomass was reached in 55 d, and the water surface coverage reached 23%. There were 71 species of phytoplankton belonging to seven phyla in the water surrounding the suspended ecological beds. Over half (36 species) were members of Prochlorophyta, and the average density and biomass of phytoplankton gradually decreased month by month. The proportion of cyanobacteria in the community showed a downwards trend, while the proportions of other phytoplankton phyla showed upwards trends. The annual average Shannon-Wiener diversity index was 0.88, the annual average Pielou evenness index was 0.32, and the annual average Margalef richness index was 1.21. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index both showed increasing trends. This comprehensive analysis shows that planting submerged plants in suspended beds can improve the phytoplankton community structure of the surrounding water and increase the biodiversity of phytoplankton, making this an effective measure for restoring submerged vegetation in algae-dominated northern lakes.		[Zhu, Hao; Chen, Xiaolong; Liv, Xingguo] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Fishery Machinery & Instrument Res Inst, 63 Chifeng Rd, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Hao] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Fishery Equipment & Engn, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Cao, Kun] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Fishery Resources & Environm Res Ctr, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xiaoke] Anqing Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Res Ctr Aquat Organism Conservat & Water Ecosyst, Anqing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Hao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Fishery Machinery & Instrument Res Inst, 63 Chifeng Rd, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Limnology	WOS:000758692400001		
J	Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar								Does landscape management influence communities of <i>Psyllopsis</i> and natural enemies on the common ash (<i>Fraxinus excelsior</i> L.)?								JOURNAL OF INSECT CONSERVATION				27	2			295	303		10.1007/s10841-022-00454-8			APR 2023	2023	Sowing cover crops that supply food resources in landscapes is a potential habitat management practice for improving the biodiversity of arthropods in parks; however, little is known about their relative performance. In this study, the impact of landscape management was assessed on communities of Psyllopsis and natural enemies on the common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) over two growing seasons (2019 and 2020) in the Shorabil park, Iran. Experimental treatments were cultivating of (1) red clover (C), Trifolium pratense L., (2) rosemary (R), Rosmarinus officinalis L., (3) ornamental cabbage (O), Brassica oleracea L. var. acephala, and (4) grass (G), a composing of Poa pratensis L., Lolium perenne L., and Festuca rubra L. in 4:4:2 ratio, as cover crops around ash trees (A). Three psyllids: Psyllopsis repens Loginova, P. securicola Loginova, and P. machinosus Loginova were collected on ash trees. Which, P. repens with a relative abundance of 73.1-80.7% was the main Psyllopsis species on trees. A significant (P <= 0.05) reduction in the population of Psyllopsis, the number of leaf-roll galls, and means of bud-cone-like structures per branch were seen in A-C and A-R plots compared with A-O and A-G treatments. The abundance of Psyllopsis predators per branch was higher in A-C plots than in the other three treatments. The greatest values of the Shannon diversity index (HGREEK TONOS = 1.98 in 2019 and 1.94 in 2020) and the Pielou's evenness index (J' = 0.90 in 2019 and 0.88 in 2020) for Psyllopsis predators were recorded in A-C plots. The highest parasitism rate of Psyllopsis nymphs by Psyllaephagus claripes Trjapitzin, among treatments, was seen in A-C plots, 34.2% in 2019 and 29.4% in 2020. A higher abundance and diversity of enemies in the clover plots was perhaps due to supplying the appropriate habitat resources. Implications for insect conservation Cultivating clover around ash trees provides proper habitat for natural enemies that attract more beneficial insects in fragmented urban landscapes and support biodiversity and biological control services.		[Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran; [Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000904004700001		
J	Blanc, Jean-Francois; Rinne, Henna; Salovius-Lauren, Sonja								Relationship between Fucus coverage and algal diversity in the northern Baltic Sea								JOURNAL OF SEA RESEARCH				191						102312	10.1016/j.seares.2022.102312			FEB 2023	2023	The canopy-forming brown macroalgae Fucus vesiculosus and Fucus radicans (Fucus) are the largest habitat-building species on rocky shores of the northern Baltic Sea. While their role on the diversity of invertebrate fauna is well documented, there is little information on their importance for the diversity of associated mac-roalgal species. We used comprehensive mapping data from the Finnish marine area (divided into four sea areas) to test the relationship between Fucus coverage and algal biodiversity (number of taxonomic units, Shannon-Wiener diversity index H ' and Pielou's evenness J'). To account for environmental variation, depth, wave exposure, Secchi depth and salinity were included as covariates. Examination of the algal communities high-lighted a similar pool of taxonomic units across sea areas in shallow (0-4 m) rocky shores, with the two fila-mentous algal species Pylaiella littoralis and Ectocarpus siliculosus combined as one unit being the most common taxon. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index was highest in sites with Fucus coverage between 25% and 75%, while evenness increased with Fucus coverage. We did not detect any effects of Fucus coverage on the number of taxonomic units, which was rather affected by environmental parameters (depth, Secchi depth and salinity). The results show that Fucus, depending on its coverage, both competes with and facilitates the macroalgal commu-nity. Based on extensive data, we show how Fucus coverage relates to the diversity of the surrounding algal communities, further improving our understanding of factors that control biodiversity on shallow rocky shores in the northern Baltic Sea.		[Blanc, Jean-Francois; Rinne, Henna; Salovius-Lauren, Sonja] Abo Akad Univ, Environm & Marine Biol, Henrikinkatu 2, Turku 20500, Finland; [Blanc, Jean-Francois] Abo Akad Univ, Environm & Marine Biol, Henrikinkatu 2, Turku 20500, Finland								0							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000902087600001		
J	Faruque, Mohammad Omar; Rudra, Sajib; Rahman, Md. Khondakar Raziur; Hossain, Md. Arif; Hossen, Imam; Barman, Sanatan Chandra; Mustakim, MD.; Hossain, Md. Ikramul; Uddin, Shaikh Bokhtear								PLANT COMMUNITY STRUCTURE AND BIODIVERSITY PATTERNS IN CHATTOGRAM METROPOLITAN CITY OF BANGLADESH								BANGLADESH JOURNAL OF PLANT TAXONOMY				29	2			313	344		10.3329/bjpt.v29i2.63532			DEC 2022	2022	The present study aims at investigating the vegetation in different sites of Chattogram metropolitan area following appropriate techniques. In order to enumerate the distribution of species, several diversity indices including Shannon-Winer Index, Pielou's Evenness and Simpson's Index were employed. A total of 645 species belonging to 414 genera under 120 families were documented from the studied area for the first time. Of these, 37 species (5.73%) are pteridophytes, 607 species (94.11%) are angiosperms and single representation of gymnosperm (0.16%). Among the recorded species, 384 are medicinal species belonging to 277 genera under 93 families. Bacopa monnieri is a dominant species in the forest area with some co-dominant species like Eichhornia crassipes, Centella asiatica, etc. Moreover, this study provides potential sources to the environmental planners, herbalists, ecologists, taxonomists, ethnobotanists, pharmacists, phytochemists and local administration that would help to plan for future green infrastructure and maintain ecosystem function providing long-term benefits for the city dwellers.		[Faruque, Mohammad Omar; Rudra, Sajib; Rahman, Md. Khondakar Raziur; Hossain, Md. Arif; Hossen, Imam; Barman, Sanatan Chandra; Mustakim, MD.; Hossain, Md. Ikramul; Uddin, Shaikh Bokhtear] Univ Chittagong, Dept Bot, Ethnobot & Pharmacognosy Lab, Chattogram 4331, Bangladesh; [Faruque, Mohammad Omar; Rahman, Md. Khondakar Raziur; Uddin, Shaikh Bokhtear] Effect Creat Human Opin ECHO, Chattogram, Bangladesh; [Faruque, Mohammad Omar; Uddin, Shaikh Bokhtear] Effect Creat Human Opin ECHO, Chattogram, Bangladesh								0							Plant Sciences	WOS:000906731100009		
J	Plaza-Diaz, Julio; Manzano, Manuel; Javier Ruiz-Ojeda, Francisco; Giron, Maria D.; Salto, Rafael; Lopez-Pedrosa, Jose M.; Santos-Fandila, Angela; Teresa Garcia-Corcoles, Maria; Rueda, Ricardo; Gil, Angel								Intake of slow-digesting carbohydrates is related to changes in the microbiome and its functional pathways in growing rats with obesity induced by diet								FRONTIERS IN NUTRITION				9						992682	10.3389/fnut.2022.992682			NOV 30 2022	2022	IntroductionThe main cause of insulin resistance in childhood is obesity, which contributes to future comorbidities as in adults. Although high-calorie diets and lack of exercise contribute to metabolic disease development, food quality rather than the quantity of macronutrients is more important than food density. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of changing the quality of carbohydrates from rapidly to slowly digestible carbohydrates on the composition of the gut microbiota and the profiles of the functional pathways in growing rats with obesity due to a high-fat diet (HFD). MethodsDuring the course of 4 weeks, rats growing on an HFD-containing carbohydrates with different digestive rates were fed either HFD-containing carbohydrates with a rapid digestion rate (OBE group) or HFD-containing carbohydrates with a slow digestion rate (OBE-ISR group). A non-obese group (NOB) was included as a reference, and rats were fed on a rodent standard diet (AIN93G). An analysis of gut microbiota was conducted using 16S rRNA-based metagenomics; a linear mixed-effects model (LMM) was used to determine changes in abundance between baseline and 4 weeks of treatment, and functional pathways were identified. Gut microbiota composition at bacterial diversity and relative abundance, at phylum and genus levels, and functional profiles were analyzed by integrating the Integrated Microbial Genomes (IMG) database. ResultsThe groups showed comparable gut microbiota at baseline. At the end of the treatment, animals from the ISR group exhibited differences at the phylum levels by decreasing the diversity of Fisher's index and Firmicutes (newly named as Bacillota), and increasing the Pielou's evenness and Bacteroidetes (newly named as Bacteroidota); at the genus level by increasing Alistipes, Bifidobacterium, Bacteroides, Butyricimonas, Lachnoclostridium, Flavonifractor, Ruminiclostridium 5, and Faecalibaculum and decreasing Muribaculum, Blautia, and Ruminiclostridium 9. Remarkably, relative abundances of genera Tyzzerella and Angelakisella were higher in the OBE group compared to NOB and OBE-ISR groups. In addition, some microbiota carbohydrate metabolism pathways such as glycolysis, glucuronic acid degradation, pentose phosphate pathway, methanogenesis, and fatty acid biosynthesis exhibited increased activity in the OBE-ISR group after the treatment. Higher levels of acetate and propionate were found in the feces of the ISR group compared with the NOB and OBE groups. ConclusionThe results of this study demonstrate that replacing rapidly digestible carbohydrates with slowly digestible carbohydrates within an HFD improve the composition of the gut microbiota. Consequently, metabolic disturbances associated with obesity may be prevented.		[Plaza-Diaz, Julio; Javier Ruiz-Ojeda, Francisco; Giron, Maria D.; Salto, Rafael; Teresa Garcia-Corcoles, Maria; Gil, Angel] Univ Granada, Sch Pharm, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol 2, Granada, Spain; [Plaza-Diaz, Julio] Childrens Hosp Eastern Ontario Res Inst, Ottawa, ON, Canada; [Plaza-Diaz, Julio; Javier Ruiz-Ojeda, Francisco; Gil, Angel] Complejo Hosp Univ Granada, Inst Invest Biosanitaria Granada Ibs Granada, Granada, Spain; [Manzano, Manuel; Lopez-Pedrosa, Jose M.; Santos-Fandila, Angela; Rueda, Ricardo] Abbott Nutr R&D, Granada, Spain; [Javier Ruiz-Ojeda, Francisco; Gil, Angel] Univ Granada, Biomed Res Ctr, Inst Nutr & Food Technol Jose Mataix, Granada, Spain; [Javier Ruiz-Ojeda, Francisco] Helmholtz Ctr Munich, Helmholtz Diabet Ctr, Inst Diabet & Obes, RG Adipocytes & Metab, Munich, Germany; [Gil, Angel] Inst Salud Carlos III, CIBER Physiopathol Obes & Nutr, Madrid, Spain; [Gil, Angel] Univ Granada, Sch Pharm, Dept Biochem & Mol Biol 2, Granada, Spain; [Gil, Angel] Complejo Hosp Univ Granada, Inst Invest Biosanitaria Granada Ibs Granada, Granada, Spain; [Gil, Angel] Univ Granada, Biomed Res Ctr, Inst Nutr & Food Technol Jose Mataix, Granada, Spain; [Gil, Angel] Inst Salud Carlos III, CIBER Physiopathol Obes & Nutr, Madrid, Spain								6							Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000898133300001		
J	Fregulia, Priscila; Campos, Mariana Magalhaes; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso; Liu, Junhong; Guo, Wei; Pereira, Luiz Gustavo Ribeiro; Machado, Marco Antonio; Faza, Daniele Ribeiro de Lima Reis; Guan, Le Luo; Garnsworthy, Phil C.; Neves, Andre Luis Alves								Taxonomic and predicted functional signatures reveal linkages between the rumen microbiota and feed efficiency in dairy cattle raised in tropical areas								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						1025173	10.3389/fmicb.2022.1025173			NOV 29 2022	2022	Ruminants digest plant biomass more efficiently than monogastric animals due to their symbiotic relationship with a complex microbiota residing in the rumen environment. What remains unclear is the relationship between the rumen microbial taxonomic and functional composition and feed efficiency (FE), especially in crossbred dairy cattle (Holstein x Gyr) raised under tropical conditions. In this study, we selected twenty-two F1 Holstein x Gyr heifers and grouped them according to their residual feed intake (RFI) ranking, high efficiency (HE) (n = 11) and low efficiency (LE) (n = 11), to investigate the effect of FE on the rumen microbial taxa and their functions. Rumen fluids were collected using a stomach tube apparatus and analyzed using amplicon sequencing targeting the 16S (bacteria and archaea) and 18S (protozoa) rRNA genes. Alpha-diversity and beta-diversity analysis revealed no significant difference in the rumen microbiota between the HE and LE animals. Multivariate analysis (sPLS-DA) showed a clear separation of two clusters in bacterial taxonomic profiles related to each FE group, but in archaeal and protozoal profiles, the clusters overlapped. The sPLS-DA also revealed a clear separation in functional profiles for bacteria, archaea, and protozoa between the HE and LE animals. Microbial taxa were differently related to HE (e.g., Howardella and Shuttleworthia) and LE animals (e.g., Eremoplastron and Methanobrevibacter), and predicted functions were significatively different for each FE group (e.g., K03395-signaling and cellular process was strongly related to HE animals, and K13643-genetic information processing was related to LE animals). This study demonstrates that differences in the rumen microbiome relative to FE ranking are not directly observed from diversity indices (Faith's Phylogenetic Diversity, Pielou's Evenness, Shannon's diversity, weighted UniFrac distance, Jaccard index, and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity), but from targeted identification of specific taxa and microbial functions characterizing each FE group. These results shed light on the role of rumen microbial taxonomic and functional profiles in crossbred Holstein x Gyr dairy cattle raised in tropical conditions, creating the possibility of using the microbial signature of the HE group as a biological tool for the development of biomarkers that improve FE in ruminants.		[Fregulia, Priscila; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Lab Protozool, Inst Ciencias Biol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Fregulia, Priscila; Dias, Roberto Junio Pedroso] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Programa Pos Grad Biodiversidade & Conservacao Nat, Inst Ciencias Biol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Campos, Mariana Magalhaes; Pereira, Luiz Gustavo Ribeiro; Machado, Marco Antonio; Faza, Daniele Ribeiro de Lima Reis] Brazilian Agr Res Corp Empresa Brasileira Pesquisa, Natl Ctr Res Dairy Cattle, EMBRAPA, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Liu, Junhong; Guan, Le Luo] Univ Alberta, Dept Agr Food & Nutr Sci, Edmonton, AB, Canada; [Guo, Wei] Guizhou Univ, Key Lab Anim Genet Breeding & Reprod Plateau Mount, Minist Educ, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Garnsworthy, Phil C.] Univ Nottingham, Sch Biosci, Loughborough, England; [Neves, Andre Luis Alves] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Vet & Anim Sci, Frederiksberg, Denmark; [Neves, Andre Luis Alves] Univ Copenhagen, Fac Hlth & Med Sci, Dept Vet & Anim Sci, Frederiksberg, Denmark								2							Microbiology	WOS:000897838800001		
J	Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao								The Effect of the Artificial Reef on the Structure and Function of Sediment Bacterial Community								SUSTAINABILITY				14	22					14728	10.3390/su142214728			NOV 2022	2022	The bacterial community in sediment is sensitive to artificial disturbance, and they respond differently to human disturbance, such as changing the nutrient cycling and energy flow in marine ecosystems. However, little is known about the dynamics and distribution of bacterial community structures in marine sediments and potential biogeochemical functions during the long-time succession in marine ranching. In the present study, we compared the dynamics of the bacterial composition and potential biogeochemical functions of sediment to ten years (TR) and one-year new artificial reef (NR) areas using metagenomic next-generation sequencing technology. Results revealed that NR reduces the Pielou's evenness and Shannon index. Similarly, nonmetric multidimensional scaling showed that the beta diversity of sediment bacterial communities in NR significantly differed between TR and non-artificial reef areas. Previously, TR biomarkers were frequently associated with organic matter decomposing and assimilating in the organically enriched sediments (i.e., Acinetobacter). The soluble reactive phosphate (SRP) and total phosphorus (TP) concentrations were thought to be the primary driving forces in shaping the microbial community in sediment. Pseudomonas, Lactobacillus, and Ralstonia have a significant positive correlation with SRP, TP, nitrate, and TN, but a negative association with pH, Salinity, Hg, and depth. NR was found to have more negative correlation nodes, indicating that taxa face more competition or predation press. Vibrio served as the module-hubs in the network in all areas. In addition, chemoheterotrophy, aerobic chemoheterotrophy, and fermentation were the three most prominent functions of the three areas, accounting for 59.96% of the relative abundance of the functional annotation. Different bacteria in sediments may change the amount of biogeochemical cycle in the marine ranching ecosystem. These findings can increase our understanding of the succession of the microecosystem for the marine ranching sedimentary environment by revealing how artificial reefs affect the indigenous sediment bacterial community and their responses to environmental variation.		[Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Shenzhen Base South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Shenzhen 518121, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Marine Ranching, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Sci Observing & Expt Stn South China Sea Fishery, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei; Chen, Guobao; Feng, Xue; Liu, Yan; Chen, Pimao] Natl Digital Fisheries Marine Ranching Innovat Su, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Shenzhen Base South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Shenzhen 518121, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Marine Ranching, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Sci Observing & Expt Stn South China Sea Fishery, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Tong, Fei] Natl Digital Fisheries Marine Ranching Innovat Su, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China								3							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000887618200001		
J	Jing, L.; Mozhui, L.; Kakati, L. N.; Thyug, L.								Earthworm community structure and population dynamics at Minkong forest of Mokokchung, Nagaland, India								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				43	6			810	817		10.22438/jeb/43/6/MRN-3089			NOV 2022	2022	Aim: The present study was undertaken to assess the seasonal variations of density, biomass and community characteristics of earthworms in two different types of forest at Minkong area, Mokokchung.Methodology: 2019-February 2020 in two areas viz., mixed forest and plantation. Standard methods were followed to determine the ecological categories of earthworms, density and biomass, relative abundance and species richness as well as for determination of different soil parameters viz., pH, moisture, bulk density, organic carbon, total and available nitrogen, available phosphorus and potassium. The survey was conducted during the period from JanuaryResults: 12 number earthworm species viz., Amynthas corticis (Kinberg), Earthworm population dynamics at Mokokchung Period of study : 2019-2020 Sampling : Quadrat method (Monthly) Time of Collection : 8:00 to 9:00 AM Earthworm species collected Bulk density and total nitrogen (%) 1 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 Edaphic factor characteristic of the sutdy area MF PL over line over line 22(dimn.(mg. )& biomass ) Density o ild( C) (%) na so moisture temp Amynthus gracilis (Kinberg), Drawida assamensis (Gates), Drawida hodgarti (Stephenson), Drawida nepalensis (Michaelsen), Drawida sp., 250 200 Eutyphoeus assamensis (Stephenson), Eutyphoeus festivus (Gates) Eutyphoeus festivus Metaphire sp. 150 Metaphire houlleti (Perrier), Perionyx excavatus (Perrier), Perionyx 100 simlaensis (Michaelsen) and Pontoscolex corethurus (Muller) were 50 recorded. Dominant earthworm species in both the areas were D. 0 MF PL MF PL MF P nepalensis, P. excavatus, Drawida sp. and E. festivus. The Shannon Spring Monsoon Post monsoo o diversity, Simpson diversity and Pielou's species evenness were 2.17, 0.87 Density Biomass Temp ( C) Moisture Drawida sp. and 0.87 in mixed forest and 2.05, 0.86, 0.86 in plantation. The earthworm density and biomass were greater in plantation (276.74 ind m and 338.47g m ) compared to mixed forest (230.52 ind m and 254.55 g m ).-2-2-2-2Interpretation: an ecological indicator of anthropogenic disturbances and can help designing conservation programs for reclaiming the depleted areas. Density (ind.m over line )& biomass (g.m over line ) 2 2 soil temp ( C) and moisture (%) o Spring MF PL MF PL Monsoon Post monsoon BD Total N (%) C:N MF PL Winter Variation of earthworm density and biomass in relation to edaphic factors L MF PL n Winter pH OC (%) 1 C:N ratio 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Soil pH and Organic carbon (%) As earthworm community characteristics differ depending on the type of forest, therefore, earthworm'sdiversity and its indices can be used as		[Jing, L.; Mozhui, L.] Nagaland Univ, Dept Zool, Lumami 798627, India; [Kakati, L. N.] Assam Town Univ, Panikhaiti 781026, India; [Thyug, L.] Kohima Sci Coll, Dept Zool, Jotsoma 797002, India; [Kakati, L. N.] Assam Town Univ, Panikhaiti 781026, India								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000885364800009		
J	Bar, Kamil; Zebrowska, Paulina; Laczmanski, Lukasz; Sozanska, Barbara								Airway Bacterial Biodiversity in Exhaled Breath Condensates of Asthmatic Children-Does It Differ from the Healthy Ones?								JOURNAL OF CLINICAL MEDICINE				11	22					6774	10.3390/jcm11226774			NOV 2022	2022	Asthma etiopathology is still not fully determined. One of its possible causes can be found in airway microbiome dysbiosis. The study's purpose was to determine whether there are any significant differences in the bacterial microbiome diversity of lower airways microbiota of asthmatic children, since knowledge of this topic is very scarce. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first research using exhaled breath condensates in children's lower airways for bacterial assessment. Exhaled breath condensates (EBC) and oropharyngeal swabs were obtained from pediatric asthmatic patients and a healthy group (n = 38, 19 vs. 19). The microbial assessment was conducted through genetic material PCR amplification, followed by bacterial 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Collected data were analyzed, in terms of taxonomy and alpha and beta diversity between assessed groups. Swab samples are characterized by higher species richness compared to exhaled breath condensates (Shannon diversity index (mean 4.11 vs. 2.867, p = 9.108 x 10(-8)), observed features (mean 77.4 vs. 17.3, p = 5.572 x 10(-11)), and Faith's phylogenetic diversity (mean 7.686 vs. 3.280 p = 1.296 x 10(-10))). Asthmatic children had a higher abundance of bacterial species (Shannon diversity index, mean 3.029 vs. 2.642, p = 0.026) but more even distribution (Pielou's evenness, mean 0.742 vs. 0.648, p = 0.002) in EBC than healthy ones; the same results were observed within pediatric patients born naturally within EBC samples. In children with a positive family history of allergic diseases, alpha diversity of lower airway material was increased (Shannon's diversity index p = 0.026, Faith's phylogenetic diversity p = 0.011, observed features p = 0.003). Class Gammaproteobacteria and Bacilli were less abundant among asthmatics in the exhaled breath samples. The most dominant bacteria on a phylum level in both sample types were Firmicutes, followed by Proteobacteria and Actinobacteriota. The obtained outcome of higher bacterial diversity of lower airways among asthmatic patients indicates a further need for future studies of microbiota connection with disease pathogenesis.		[Bar, Kamil; Sozanska, Barbara] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept & Clin Paediat Allergol & Cardiol 1, PL-50367 Wroclaw, Poland; [Zebrowska, Paulina; Laczmanski, Lukasz] Polish Acad Sci, Hirszfeld Inst Immunol & Expt Therapy, Lab Genom & Bioinformat, PL-53114 Wroclaw, Poland; [Bar, Kamil] Wroclaw Med Univ, Dept & Clin Paediat Allergol & Cardiol 1, PL-50367 Wroclaw, Poland								3							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:000887351800001		
J	Ritchie, Gabrielle; Strodl, Esben; Parham, Sophie; Bambling, Matthew; Cramb, Susanna; Vitetta, Luis								An exploratory study of the gut microbiota in major depression with anxious distress								JOURNAL OF AFFECTIVE DISORDERS				320				595	604		10.1016/j.jad.2022.10.001			JAN 1 2023	2023	Objectives: To explore differences in the diversity and composition of the gut microbiome between major depressive disorder (MDD) with and without anxious distress.Methods: The study comprised 117 participants (79 female, 36 male, 2 other, mean age 38.2 +/- 13.4 years) with a current major depressive episode (MDE) with (n = 63) and without (n = 54) the anxious distress specifier. A clinical psychologist administered the structured clinical interview for the DSM-5-RV to confirm a diagnosis of depression. Participants provided stool samples which were immediately frozen and stored at-80 degrees C. These samples were analysed using the Illumina 16S Metagenomics sequencing protocol in which the sequencing primers target the V3 and V4 regions of the 16S rRNA gene. Participants also completed mental health ques-tionnaires to assess severity of depression (BDI-II), generalized anxiety (GAD-7), and stress (PSS).Results: There were no significant group differences in alpha-diversity (Shannon's diversity Index; Simpson Index), richness (ACE; Chao1), (Pielou's) evenness, or beta diversity (Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and weighted UniFrac distance) of gut bacteria. Significant group differences in the relative abundance of gut microbiota however were observed at each taxonomical level, including across 15 genera and 18 species. Limitations: This was an exploratory study that needs to be replicated across larger samples and compared with a healthy control group.Conclusions: The research contributes to knowledge of the depressive gut microbial profile unique to the anxious distress subtype of MDD.		[Ritchie, Gabrielle; Strodl, Esben; Parham, Sophie] Queensland Univ Technol, Fac Hlth, Kelvin Grove, Qld, Australia; [Bambling, Matthew] Univ Queensland, Fac Med, Herston, Qld, Australia; [Cramb, Susanna] Queensland Univ Technol, Australian Ctr Hlth Serv Innovat, Brisbane, Australia; [Cramb, Susanna] Queensland Univ Technol, Ctr Healthcare Transformat, Brisbane, Australia; [Vitetta, Luis] Univ Sydney, Fac Med & Hlth, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Vitetta, Luis] Medlab Clin, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Ritchie, Gabrielle] Fac Hlth, 66 Musk Ave, Kelvin Grove, Qld 4159, Australia; [Ritchie, Gabrielle] Fac Hlth, 66 Musk Ave, Kelvin Grove, Qld 4159, Australia								5							Clinical Neurology; Psychiatry	WOS:000888135400010		
J	Alioghli, Negar; Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar; Razmjou, Jabraeil; Hassanpour, Mahdi								Does intercropping patterns of potato and safflower affect the density of Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say), predators, and the yield of crops?								BIOLOGICAL CONTROL				175						105051	10.1016/j.biocontrol.2022.105051			NOV 2022	2022	The impact of three intercrop patterns of potato (P), Solanum tuberosum L., and safflower (S), Carthamus tinctorius L.: 4P:2S, 4P:4S, and 4P:8S (row ratios) along with single crops were examined on densities of the Colorado potato beetle (CPB), Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say), biodiversity of predators, and yield profits over the growing season of potatoes in a randomized complete block design in 2019 and 2020 in Iran. The significant reduction in the densities of CPB (adults, eggs, and larvae) was seen in intercrops compared with single potato in either year. Accordingly, the damage index was decreased in intercrops than in single potato. Furthermore, intercrops resulted in an enhancement in the abundance of most predatory species of CPB, the Shannon diversity index (HGREEK TONOS), and the Pielou's evenness index (J'), especially in 4P:4S and 4P:8S than single potato. The values of R2 between the densities of CPB and the main predators were low (0.01 <= R2 <= 0.19) in June, whereas R2 values were significantly enhanced in July (0.13 <= R2 <= 0.71) and August (0.46 <= R2 <= 0.97). All intercrops delivered extra yield benefit compared with the single crops (LER >= 1.20 in 2019 and >= 1.18 in 2020). Our results dis-closed that all intercrops, especially 4P:4S and 4P:8S could exercise in the controlling of L. decemlineata in potato fields.		[Alioghli, Negar; Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar; Razmjou, Jabraeil; Hassanpour, Mahdi] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran; [Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran								2							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Entomology	WOS:000863182300005		
J	Rahat, Md. Asikur Rahaman; Roy, Nitai; Manon, Md. Rased Khan; Ullah, Md. Rahamat; Islam, M. Muhsinul; Rashid, Md. Tareq; Hasan, Khandakar Rakibul; Chakma, Suprakash; Rahman, Md. Arifur								Temporal distribution of fishery resources in Payra River: relationship with climatological changes, ecological assessment, and threat assessment								HELIYON				8	9					e10584	10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e10584			SEP 2022	2022	The Payra river is one of the large coastal rivers in Bangladesh which supports incredible fish species and has been affected by extensive human disturbance due to huge fishing pressure. The present study provides information about the temporal diversity of finfish and shellfish concerning climatological variables and ecological pollution along with threat assessment in the Payra river, Bangladesh. During the entire study, a total of 61 species including 56 finfish and 5 shellfish species were recorded under 22 families belonging to 11 orders. The orderwise fish species availability showed that the Perciformes (29.49%) was the dominant order based on species richness. Among them, 4 endangered, 6 vulnerable, 4 near threatened, 42 least concern, and 5 data deficient species were found. During the study period, the average Shannon-Weaver diversity index value was (3.33 +/- 0.12) indicating a good spread of fish population in the Payra river. Average Margalef richness index value was found (7.60 +/- 0.32), Pielou's evenness index (0.48 +/- 0.05), and Simpson dominance index (0.93 +/- 0.02) in the Payra river. The dominance and Richness index value indicates a clear water environment with slight pollution in the Payra river. Ten different kinds of fishing gears were identified under 3 major groups including 5 nets, 3 hooks and lines, and 2 traps. Canonical correspondence analysis ordination plot showed that rainfall was the most influencing driving force among the meteorological parameters. The cluster analysis based on the Bray-Curtis similarity matrix showed that the winter season formed a separate cluster. In the recapitulation, the Payra river is a highly productive system that provides a favorable environment for a large variety of finfish and shellfish species assemblages. The findings of the conducted study are expected to be helpful for the respective researchers, policymakers, managers, and conservationists for the sustainable management of this water body and the interconnected surrounding neighboring countries.		[Rahat, Md. Asikur Rahaman; Ullah, Md. Rahamat; Rahman, Md. Arifur] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Fac Fisheries, Dept Fisheries Biol & Genet, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh; [Roy, Nitai] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Fac Nutr & Food Sci, Dept Biochem & Food Anal, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh; [Manon, Md. Rased Khan; Islam, M. Muhsinul; Rashid, Md. Tareq; Hasan, Khandakar Rakibul] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Fac Fisheries, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh; [Ullah, Md. Rahamat] Bangladesh Fisheries Res Inst, Riverine Sub Stn, Patuakhali 650, Bangladesh; [Chakma, Suprakash] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries Technol, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh; [Rahman, Md. Arifur] Patuakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Fac Fisheries, Dept Fisheries Biol & Genet, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh								2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000862501000012		
J	Palm, Kristiina; Vodde, Floortje; Tullus, Tea; Engelhart, Jeroen; Jogiste, Kalev								Impact of different storm severity levels and post-storm management on understory vegetation richness, diversity and composition 19-20 years after wind disturbance								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				524						120506	10.1016/j.foreco.2022.120506			NOV 15 2022	2022	The herbaceous understory is a key component of forest biodiversity. Moreover, it holds the capability to alter the dynamics and composition of the overstory. Severe wind disturbance changes the conditions in a forest ecosystem radically, causing alteration of understory characteristics as well. In this paper we analyze impacts of different storm damage levels and post-storm management on understory vegetation richness, diversity and composition in mixed spruce-hardwood forest stands located in hemiboreal Estonia. We examined understory vegetation in moderately damaged (n = 4), heavily damaged (n = 4) and post-storm salvage-logged stands (n = 4) 19-20 years after storm disturbance. Mature mixed spruce-hardwood forests were included as a reference group (n = 4). Study plots were also assessed regarding canopy openness, richness of microhabitats and coverage of woody species. A total of 98 herbaceous and 2 dwarf shrub taxa were found on 208 vegetation quadrats (1 m2 square each). Total coverage of the herb layer and species richness were greatest at salvage-logged plots when compared to other treatments. However, we found no significant effect of treatment on diversity (Shannon's H') nor evenness (Pielou's index) of herbaceous species. Our results indicate that approximately-two decades after wind disturbance, the understory communities differ from each other as a response to different storm damage levels and post-storm management. Compared to control plots, salvage-logged plots demonstrated greatest contrast regarding species composition. Salvage-logged plots had greatest light levels, but lowest estimates for microsite richness and woody species coverage. Moderately damaged plots demonstrated greatest within-group variation regarding light conditions and species composition. Our findings suggest that salvage logging after severe wind disturbance might induce delayed succession toward a closed canopy due to intense understory competition and lack of opportunity-providing microhabitats for tree regeneration.		[Palm, Kristiina; Vodde, Floortje; Tullus, Tea; Engelhart, Jeroen; Jogiste, Kalev] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Forestry & Engn, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51006 Tartu, Estonia; [Palm, Kristiina] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Forestry & Engn, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51006 Tartu, Estonia								1							Forestry	WOS:000870066600005		
J	Kumar, Rahul; Kumar, Amit; Saikia, Purabi								Forest composition regulates above-ground biomass in <i>Sal</i> forests of Ranchi, Eastern India								ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY				5	3			355	373		10.1007/s42398-022-00240-x			SEP 2022	2022	The present study is aimed to determine the relationship between above-ground biomass (AGB) and plant diversity attributes in the Sal forests of Ranchi, Eastern India. High AGB (410.70 Mg ha(-1)) and carbon stock (Cp) (193.06 Mg C ha(-1)) were recorded in the studied forests, and forest-wise AGB ranged from 0.19 to 24.75 Mg ha(-1) (mean 4.45 +/- 0.45 Standard Error (SE). Most of the studied forests (65%) had very low AGB (< 5.00 Mg ha(-1)), except only one forest located in the northwest corner of Ranchi (AGB > 20 Mg ha(-1)). A significant positive correlation of AGB was observed with Cp (r = 0.99, p < 0.01), Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index (H') (r = 0.58, p < 0.01), Margalef's Index of Species Richness (Dmg) (r = 0.31, p < 0.01), Menhinick's Index of Species Richness (Dmn) (r = 0.49, p < 0.01), Effective Number of Species (ENS) (r = 0.57, p < 0.01), Pielou's Evenness Index (E) (r = 0.26, p < 0.05), and Basal area (BA) (r = 0.71, p < 0.05). However, a negative significant correlation of AGB was evident with Simpson Index of Dominance (CD) (r = - 0.57, p < 0.01), and insignificant negative correlation with density (r = - 0.17). The relationships differed greatly among various forests, and the strongest relationships within each forest were always those having greater richness (Dmg, Dmn), diversity (H, ENS), basal area, or evenness (E). The results suggest that forest composition plays a significant role in enhancing biomass carbon stock in Sal dominating tropical forests of Eastern India. The majority of forest patches are in a dire state regarding future carbon security that reflects under performance of various forest management strategies.		[Kumar, Rahul; Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India; [Kumar, Amit] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Geoinformat, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India; [Kumar, Rahul] ICFRE Inst Forest Prod, Ranchi 835303, Jharkhand, India; [Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:001126196100009		
J	Ciercoles, Cristina; Garcia-Ruiz, Cristina; Abello, Pere; Hidalgo, Manuel; Torres, Pedro; Gonzalez, Maria; Mateo-Ramirez, Angel; Luis Rueda, Jose								Decapod crustacean assemblages on trawlable grounds in the northern Alboran Sea and Gulf of Vera								SCIENTIA MARINA				86	3					e039	10.3989/scimar.05265.039			SEP 2022	2022	This study analyses the samples collected annually (2012 to 2018) on circalittoral and bathyal soft bottoms (30 to 800 m) by the MEDITS surveys in the northern Alboran Sea (including Alboran Island) and the Gulf of Vera to determine the composition, structure and distribution of decapod crustacean assemblages. A total of 94 decapod crustacean species were identified. Non-metric multidimensional scaling showed depth to be the main factor for distinguishing four main decapod assemblages: the inner shelf (30-100 m depth), outer shelf (101-200 m), upper slope (201-500 m) and middle slope (501-800 m). PERMANOVA analyses revealed further significant depth-related differences between three established geographical sectors of the study area (northern Alboran Sea, Gulf of Vera and Alboran Island). Generalized additive model analyses were used to assess the bathymetrical, geographical and environmental effects on the ecological indices of each assemblage. Results showed that depth and the geographical effect were the main drivers in all cases. Decreases in abundance and increases in species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness indices with depth were detected. This study shows the primacy of depth and geographical effect on the distribution of decapod species in the study area, in alignment with findings from other parts of the Mediterranean Sea.		[Ciercoles, Cristina] Univ Malaga UMA, Campus Teatinos S-N, Malaga 29071, Spain; [Ciercoles, Cristina; Garcia-Ruiz, Cristina; Torres, Pedro; Gonzalez, Maria; Mateo-Ramirez, Angel; Luis Rueda, Jose] CN IEO CSIC, Inst Espanol Oceanog, Ctr Oceanog Malaga, Malaga, Spain; [Abello, Pere] Inst Ciencies Mar CSI, Barcelona, Spain; [Hidalgo, Manuel] Inst Espanol Oceanog CN IEO CSIC, Ctr Oceanog Baleares, Palma De Mallorca, Spain; [Ciercoles, Cristina] Univ Malaga UMA, Campus Teatinos S-N, Malaga 29071, Spain; [Ciercoles, Cristina] CN IEO CSIC, Inst Espanol Oceanog, Ctr Oceanog Malaga, Malaga, Spain								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000898529000003		
J	Kemboi, Bernard; Karuri, Hannah; Nyaga, Justine M.; Kingsbury, Aaron J.								Vertical Distribution of Plant-Parasitic Nematodes in Sweet Potato								JOURNAL OF NEMATOLOGY				54	1					20220025	10.2478/jofnem-2022-0025			AUG 21 2022	2022	Plant-parasitic nematodes (PPN) are harmful pests that have become a severe threat to crop production worldwide. Diversity of PPN at horizontal and spatial scales influence the effectiveness of control strategies. This study evaluated the vertical distribution of PPN genera at 0 cm to 30 cm and 30 cm to 60 cm in sweet potato fields in Central, Manyatta, and Nembure regions of Embu County, Kenya. A significant region x depth interaction was observed for Tylenchus. For all the other nematode genera, there were no significant variations in the abundance at 0 cm to 30 cm and 30 cm to 60 cm depths. However, Helicotylenchus, Meloidogyne, and Scutellonema occurred in greater numbers at both depths in all regions. Shannon and Simpson diversity indices were higher at 0 cm to 30 cm depth while Pielou's evenness was similar at both depths in the three regions. Diversity partitioning of genus richness, Shannon, and Simpson diversities across all regions at 0 cm to 30 cm, indicated that beta component contributed 61.9%, 35.6%, and 22.6% of gamma diversity, respectively. Coinertia analysis indicated a significant covariation between nematode genera and soil properties. The results show that management of PPN in sweet potato fields should be targeted at soil depths that are not less than 60 cm.		[Kemboi, Bernard; Karuri, Hannah; Nyaga, Justine M.] Univ Embu, Dept Biol Sci, Embu, Kenya; [Kingsbury, Aaron J.] Maine Maritime Acad, Castine, ME 04420 USA; [Karuri, Hannah] POB 6-60100, Embu, Kenya								0							Zoology	WOS:000842652200002		
J	Farhana-Azmi, Nur; Manjaji-Matsumoto, Mabel; Maidin, Nasrulhakim; John, Jonathan Balang; Bavoh, Elvin Michael; Saleh, Ejria								Checklist of coral reef fishes of Darvel Bay, Sabah, Malaysian Coral Triangle, with a note on the biodiversity and community structure								BIODIVERSITY DATA JOURNAL				10						e79201	10.3897/BDJ.10.e79201			AUG 12 2022	2022	The Darvel Bay is a large semi-enclosed bay with spectacular natural land and seascape. The inward side of the Bay has only been recently known to be an important foraging ground for the endangered, threatened and protected (ETP) elasmobranch species, such as the Whale Shark and mobulid rays. Following a recent scientific expedition, we present a checklist of the coral reef fishes of Darvel Bay. A note on the biodiversity and community structure is presented, based on our analysis using diversity indices, univariate and multivariate approaches. Seven natural coral reefs comprising two fringing reefs and five patch reefs, were surveyed at 10 m depth using underwater visual census (UVC) and baited remote underwater video station (BRUVS) methods. A diverse list of 66 species of reef fishes from 17 families is recorded. However, this is overwhelmingly dominated by the small-sized omnivorous damselfish, family Pomacentridae (62%; N = 1485 individuals). Species richness and abundance were observed to increase at sites surveyed furthest from the coast within the Bay. Significantly distinct reef fish assemblages were observed between three priori groups, based on proximity to shore (ANOSIM, R = 0.65, p < 0.05). SIMPER analysis further revealed that 22 species of the total reef fish species recorded drive 76% dissimilarities between the groups. The pattern of the reef fish communities (c) Farhana-Azmi N et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.2 Farhana-Azmi N et al observed, reflected as a logseries distribution model, is that commonly found in disturbed habitats or habitats characterised by restricted resources in a community, where the dominant species takes up a high proportion of available resources. The ecological indices (Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index, 2.05; Simpson Index of Diversity, 0.79; Simpson Dominance Index, 0.20; and Pielou's Evenness Index, 0.43), all reflect the relatively low diversity and uneven species distribution of the reef fish community. We conclude that the present status of the coral reef fish community dominating Darvel Bay as having undergone a rapid shift in structure following intense and rampant fishing pressure, as reported by the media.		[Farhana-Azmi, Nur; Manjaji-Matsumoto, Mabel; Saleh, Ejria] Univ Malaysia Sabah, Borneo Marine Res Inst, Kota Kinabalu 89400, Sabah, Malaysia; [Maidin, Nasrulhakim; John, Jonathan Balang; Bavoh, Elvin Michael] POB 10626,Sabah Pk, Kota Kinabalu 88806, Sabah, Malaysia; [Manjaji-Matsumoto, Mabel] Univ Malaysia Sabah, Borneo Marine Res Inst, Kota Kinabalu 89400, Sabah, Malaysia								0							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000844025600001		
J	Alper, Alp								Faunistic and ecological assessment of interstitial Harpacticoida (Crustacea, Copepoda) on a sandy beach in Balikesir (Turkey)								NAUPLIUS				30							10.1590/2358-2936e2022022			AUG 8 2022	2022	Interstitial harpacticoids along the mediolittoral zones of Sarimsakli Beach, Turkey, were sampled monthly between April 2016 and March 2017 in order to reveal the effects of pH, water temperature, salinity, electrical conductivity, dissolved oxygen, and grain size on the occurrence and composition of the harpacticoids. Examination of the samples from nine stations revealed a total of 66 species. In terms of harpacticoid species abundance, Ectinosoma soyeri Apostolov, 1975 was ranked first followed by Sarsamphiascus angustipes (Gurney, 1927) and Leptomesochra eulitoralis Noodt, 1952. The variations in harpacticoid community were estimated by using some ecological indices (Species richness, Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness). Principal component analysis (PCA) based on the abiotic factors was applied for ordination of the stations. Relationships between environmental and temporal parameters as well as harpacticoid community structure were analyzed using distance-based Linear Models (DistLM). Relationships between environmental variables and most abundant species were determined with the Redundancy analysis (RDA). The abundance of S. angustipes and Klieonychocamptus ponticus (Serban and Plesa, 1957) were positively correlated with all tested variables except water temperature. The abundance of Klieonychocamptus kliei (Monard, 1935) was positively correlated with water temperature, grain size and salinity, while it was negatively correlated with dissolved oxygen and pH. The abundance of Ameira sp. andMicrosetella norvegica (Boeck, 1865) were negatively correlated with all tested variables except water temperature. The abundance of E. soyeri and Ameira parvula (Claus, 1866) were negatively correlated with all tested variables except pH. The abundance of Leptomesochra eulitoralis was positively correlated with water temperature and salinity, while it was negatively correlated with grain size, dissolved oxygen and pH.		[Alper, Alp] Balikesir Univ, Fac Sci & Literature, Dept Biol, Balikesir, Turkey; [Alper, Alp] Balikesir Univ, Fac Sci & Literature, Dept Biol, Balikesir, Turkey								0							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Zoology	WOS:000890472100003		
J	Zhang, Panpan; Zhang, Chenchen; Ding, Shunping; Bian, Ziqi; Li, Peikun; Zhang, Jian; Ding, Shengyan								Response of Soil Fauna Diversity to Agricultural Landscape Het-Erogeneity in the Middle and Lower Reaches of the Yellow River-A Case Study in Gongyi City, China								DIVERSITY-BASEL				14	8					602	10.3390/d14080602			AUG 2022	2022	Soil fauna contribute to important ecological functions such as improving soil structure and promoting nutrient circulation. They are the common environmental indicators in agricultural landscape. Therefore, this study took Gongyi City, Henan Province, China, located in the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River, as the study area, to explore the impact of multi-scale landscape heterogeneity on soil fauna diversity and the response of soil fauna to it. Our results showed that patch types and degree of fragmentation in the study area increased significantly with the increase of spatial scale. The diversity indices of soil fauna in different habitats showed that the Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Simpson's diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, and Margalef richness index were the lowest in farmland habitat. Diversity indices of artificial forests were higher than those of natural forests. Diversity indices of soil fauna under different geomorphic conditions showed that Pielou's evenness index and Margalef richness index had significant differences under different geomorphic conditions (p < 0.05). The effects of multi-scale landscape heterogeneity on soil fauna diversity were different. In the 150 m buffer zone, soil fauna community composition and diversity indices were strongly correlated with patch richness index, patch richness density, and other landscape indices (p < 0.05). Meanwhile, the contribution rate of landscape index to soil fauna community composition were 45.05%, 32.5%, and 42% in farmland, plantation, and natural forest, respectively. Therefore, the 150 m buffer zone could be used as the characteristic response scale of soil fauna diversity. The multi-scale interaction of landform, habitat, and landscape also had a significant impact on soil fauna diversity.		[Zhang, Panpan; Zhang, Chenchen; Bian, Ziqi; Li, Peikun; Zhang, Jian; Ding, Shengyan] Henan Univ, Key Lab Geospatial Technol Middle & Lower Yellow, Minist Educ, Kaifeng 475001, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Panpan; Zhang, Chenchen; Bian, Ziqi; Li, Peikun; Zhang, Jian; Ding, Shengyan] Henan Univ, Coll Geog & Environm Sci, Kaifeng 475001, Peoples R China; [Ding, Shunping] Calif Polytechn State Univ, Hort & Crop Sci Dept, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 USA; [Ding, Shengyan] Henan Univ, Key Lab Geospatial Technol Middle & Lower Yellow, Minist Educ, Kaifeng 475001, Peoples R China; [Ding, Shengyan] Henan Univ, Coll Geog & Environm Sci, Kaifeng 475001, Peoples R China								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000845969300001		
J	Mipam, Tserang Donko; Chen, Fei; Tian, Liming; Zhang, Pei; Huang, Mengjiao; Chen, Lifan; Wang, Xingxing; Zhang, Peng; Lin, Ziyuan; Liu, Xiang								Plant community-mediated effects of grazing on plant diseases								OECOLOGIA				199	4			897	905		10.1007/s00442-022-05223-7			AUG 2022	2022	Grazing is one of the most important management practices for grasslands. To date, most studies on how grazing affects plant diseases have focused on a single plant species, ignoring plant community characteristics and phylogeny. We used data from a 6-year yak grazing experiment (0, 1, 2, and 3 yak(s) ha( - 1) treatment) in an alpine meadow ecosystem of Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, from which we tested grazing effects on foliar fungal diseases at both population and community levels. By measuring plant community variables (including richness, evenness, phylogenetic diversity, and composition) and disease severity, we evaluated the relative importance of plant community-mediated effects of yak grazing on community pathogen load with a multi-model inference approach. We found significant differences in pathogen load among different grazing treatments; we recorded the highest and lowest pathogen loads in the 1 yak ha( - 1) treatment and in the 3 yaks ha( - 1) treatment, respectively. Pielou's evenness index and community proneness (i.e., an estimate of the capacity of plant communities to support diseases) best explained variation in pathogen load, indicating that plant community-mediated effects (through evenness and proneness) of yak grazing determined pathogen load. Our study provides empirical evidence that grazing influences foliar fungal disease prevalence through plant community evenness and composition, which demonstrates the necessity of incorporating host plant community characteristics into disease load prediction frameworks.		[Mipam, Tserang Donko] Southwest Minzu Univ, Inst Qinghai Tibetan Plateau, Sichuan Zoige Alpine Wetland Ecosyst Natl Observa, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Chen, Fei; Wang, Xingxing; Zhang, Peng; Lin, Ziyuan; Liu, Xiang] Lanzhou Univ, State Key Lab Grassland Agroecosyst, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Chen, Fei; Wang, Xingxing; Zhang, Peng; Lin, Ziyuan; Liu, Xiang] Lanzhou Univ, Coll Ecol, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Tian, Liming; Zhang, Pei] Sichuan Univ, Coll Life Sci, Sichuan Zoige Alpine Wetland Ecosyst Natl Observa, Minist Educ,Key Lab Bioresource & Ecoenvironm, Chengdu 610065, Peoples R China; [Huang, Mengjiao] Fudan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Minist Educ, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, 2005 Songhu Rd, Shanghai 200438, Peoples R China; [Chen, Lifan] Shanghai Univ Med & Hlth Sci, Sch Arts & Sci, Shanghai 201318, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiang] Lanzhou Univ, State Key Lab Grassland Agroecosyst, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xiang] Lanzhou Univ, Coll Ecol, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China								2							Ecology	WOS:000833459100002		
J	Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio; Gil-Delgado, Jose A.; Galvez, Angel; Bernat-Ponce, Edgar								Artificial grass in parks as a potential new threat for urban bird communities								BIRD CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL				33						PII S0959270922000119	10.1017/S0959270922000119			JUL 26 2022	2022	Green areas are key habitats for urban avifauna. Urban parks stand out from other anthropic habitats especially in providing trophic resources for many bird species. Consequently, modifications of these green zones can imply major changes in urban biodiversity. Potential pernicious urban remodelling is taking place in parks of eastern Spain because natural grass is being replaced with artificial grass to save water and to avoid management. This study aimed to determine whether remodelled parks with artificial grass harbour lower avian diversity (alpha, beta and gamma diversity) than traditional parks with natural grass. We surveyed 21 parks with artificial grass and 24 parks with natural grass in 18 towns of the Valencia Region in autumn 2020. In each park, we carried out 5-minute and 25-m radius point counts for determining bird species and their abundance. The effects of park area and grass type on alpha diversity (species richness, Shannon diversity index, Pielou's Evenness and total abundance) were tested by means of GLMs. Differences in beta diversity and its components (nestedness and turnover) were also analyzed with the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index. Gamma diversity was assessed by means of species accumulation curves. Finally, differences in community composition were tested by PERMANOVA and SIMPER tests. The parks with natural grass always harboured higher gamma diversity, species richness and abundance. Turnover was higher in parks with natural grass, whereas nestedness was higher in artificial grass parks. Differences in community composition were due mainly to abundance differences in common ground-feeding birds. We highlight that the trend of replacing natural by artificial grass in urban parks has harmful effects on urban bird communities and is a threat to bird conservation. Although artificial grass might save water, the effects on urban biodiversity should be carefully evaluated.		[Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio; Gil-Delgado, Jose A.; Galvez, Angel; Bernat-Ponce, Edgar] Univ Valencia, Cavanilles Inst Biodivers & Evolutionary Biol, C Catedrat Jose Beltran 2, Paterna 46980, Spain; [Sanchez-Sotomayor, David; Martin-Higuera, Antonio] Asociac Iberozoa, Bird & Mammal Sect, Madrid, Spain; [Galvez, Angel] Univ Valencia, Cavanilles Inst Biodivers & Evolutionary Biol, C Catedrat Jose Beltran 2, Paterna 46980, Spain								4							Biodiversity Conservation; Ornithology	WOS:000830190600001		
J	Ranju, Radhakrishnan; Joydas, Thadickal V.; Damodaran, Rayaroth								Unilocular calcareous benthic foraminifera from the deep-sea sediments of the Bay of Bengal								REGIONAL STUDIES IN MARINE SCIENCE				55						102558	10.1016/j.rsma.2022.102558			SEP 2022	2022	Benthic foraminifera, predominantly marine unicellular organisms, are abundant and diverse. Their tests with intricate and varied surface ornamentation make them unique and fascinating organisms. Among them, Unilocular calcareous benthic foraminifera have always been the least explored group due to their less frequent occurrence and small, fragile tests. Hence, a study on the unilocular foraminifera was conducted by collecting a core (4.15 m long deep-sea core of 12.7 cm diameter) sample from the deep-sea environment (3083 m depth) of the Bay of Bengal on the Research Vessel MGS Sagar. This study describes the vertical distribution of unilocular foraminifera, assesses their community structure, provides illustrated taxonomic descriptions and reports new records from the Indian waters. Twenty-five species belonging to seven genera, two families and one suborder were recorded, of which eight species are new reports from the Indian waters. The total abundance of the Unilocular foraminifera was 219 number/gram (9% of the total foraminifera abundance) Fissurina (77), Oolina (46) Parafissurina (28) and Lagena (28) were the most abundant genera. Vertical distribution of the unilocular species showed a decreasing trend with 19 species in the 0-100 cm to three species in the 301-415 cm of the core sample. Shannon Weiner diversity index (H') values ranged between 0 and 3.75, with the highest of 3.75 recorded at the 138-140 cm layer. Pielou's species evenness (J') values ranged from 0.82 to 1, and species dominance ranged from 0 to 0.5. Results of the analysis of similarity proved a significant variation in the species composition of unilocular benthic foraminifera between various depth layers of the core. Systematic descriptions of this taxa have also been included in the present study. This study is thus expected to fill the gap in knowledge of this lesser-known group of benthic foraminifera from the Indian waters.(c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Ranju, Radhakrishnan; Damodaran, Rayaroth] Cochin Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Marine Sci, Dept Marine Biol Microbiol & Biochem, Cochin, India; [Joydas, Thadickal V.] King Fahd Univ Petr & Minerals, Res Inst, Ctr Environm Marine Studies, POB 1995, Dhahran 31261, Saudi Arabia; [Ranju, Radhakrishnan] Cochin Univ Sci & Technol, Sch Marine Sci, Dept Marine Biol Microbiol & Biochem, Cochin, India								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000836177200005		
J	Liu, Guofu; Bai, Zhenjian; Cui, Guowen; He, Wenhua; Kongling, Zelai; Ji, Guoxu; Gong, Hao; Li, Dandan								Effects of Land Use on the Soil Microbial Community in the Songnen Grassland of Northeast China								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						865184	10.3389/fmicb.2022.865184			JUL 8 2022	2022	Land use change obviously changes the plant community composition and soil properties of grasslands and thus affects multiple functions and services of grassland ecosystems. However, the response mechanisms of soil microorganisms, key drivers of the nutrient cycle and other soil functions during changes in grassland use type and associated vegetation are not well understood. In this study, Illumina high-throughput sequencing was used to analyze the changes in the soil microbial community structure of four grassland use types: exclosure (EL), mowed land (ML), grazed land (GL), and farmland (FL) in the Songnen Plain of Northeast China. The results showed that the FL and EL had significantly higher soil total nitrogen (TN) and lower soil electrical conductivity (EC) and pH than GL and ML. In contrast, the GL and ML had higher soil bulk density (BD) and organic matter, respectively, than the other land use types. In addition, the values of the Shannon diversity and Pielou's evenness indexes were highest in the EL of all the land use types. Based on the high-throughput sequencing results, we observed high levels of alpha diversity in the FL for both bacteria and fungi. A structural equation model (SEM) revealed that pH and EC had a direct and positive effect on the bacterial community structure and composition. In addition, plant taxonomic diversity (according to the Shannon diversity and Pielou's evenness indexes) indirectly affected the bacterial community composition via soil pH and EC. Notably, fungal composition was directly and positively correlated with soil nutrients and the value of Pielou's evenness index changed with land use type. In conclusion, soil properties and/or plant diversity might drive the changes in the soil microbial community structure and composition in different grassland use types.		[Liu, Guofu; Bai, Zhenjian; Cui, Guowen; Kongling, Zelai; Ji, Guoxu; Gong, Hao; Li, Dandan] Northeast Agr Univ, Dept Anim Sci & Technol, Harbin, Peoples R China; [He, Wenhua] Qiqihar Grassland Stn, Qiqihar, Peoples R China; [Cui, Guowen] Northeast Agr Univ, Dept Anim Sci & Technol, Harbin, Peoples R China								2							Microbiology	WOS:000891686800001		
J	Maina, Samuel; Karuri, Hannah; Mugweru, Julius								Nematode diversity and its association with soil properties in monocrop pigeon pea								JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD RESEARCH				9						100336	10.1016/j.jafr.2022.100336			SEP 2022	2022	Pigeon pea is a versatile pulse crop grown in semi-arid regions of Kenya; however, its production is affected by plant-parasitic nematodes. The current study was undertaken to investigate the diversity of nematodes and the influence of soil properties on their diversity in monocrop pigeon pea fields in Mbeere North, Embu County, Kenya. Soil samples were collected from Gatunguru B, Gwakaithi, Itururi, Kambungu, Kanyueri, Karigiri, Mbangua and Njarange regions. From each field, soil samples were collected from a depth of 25 cm using W-shaped sampling pattern. The nematodes were identified to the genus level using morphological features. In total, 46 nematode genera assigned to five trophic levels were identified across the eight regions. Abundance of Meloidogyne, Rotylenchulus, Longidorus, Acrobeloides, Cervidellus, Panagrolaimus, Prismatolaimus and Wilsonema varied markedly among the eight regions. Bacterivores belonging to colonizer-persister group 2 were the most prevalent group. There were no differences in Pielou's evenness, genus richness, Shannon and Simpson diversity indices across the regions. Canonical correspondence analysis indicated significant correlations between certain nematode genera and soil attributes with the first two axes accounting for 56.65% of the variance. Acrobeloides correlated positively with Mg, C, Mn and N, and negatively with Fe. The occurrence of Hoplolaimus and Mesorhabditis was associated negatively with soil pH, clay and Ca, and positively with sand. The present work reveals a high abundance of economically important PPN in monocrop pigeon pea which necessitates that appropriate nematode management programs are implemented.		[Maina, Samuel; Karuri, Hannah; Mugweru, Julius] Univ Embu, Dept Biol Sci, POB 6-60100, Embu, Kenya; [Karuri, Hannah] Univ Embu, Dept Biol Sci, POB 6-60100, Embu, Kenya								1							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Food Science & Technology	WOS:000825347300002		
J	Beker, Sabrina A.; Khudur, Leadin S.; Krohn, Christian; Cole, Ivan; Ball, Andrew S.								Remediation of groundwater contaminated with dye using carbon dots technology: Ecotoxicological and microbial community responses								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT				319						115634	10.1016/j.jenvman.2022.115634			OCT 1 2022	2022	Groundwater pollution poses a serious threat to the main source of clean water globally. Nanoparticles have the potential for remediation of polluted aquifers; however, environmental safety concerns associated with in situ deployments of such technology include potential detrimental effects on microorganisms in terms of toxicity and functional disruptions. In this work, we evaluated a new and ecofriendly approach using carbon dots (CDs) as Fenton-like catalysts to catalyse the degradation of dye-containing groundwater samples. This investigation aimed at evaluating the efficacy of a novel remediation technology in terms of dye degradation and toxicity reduction while assessing its impacts on aquatic microorganisms. Uncontaminated Australian groundwater samples were spiked with methylene blue and incubated in the dark, at 18 ?, under slow agitation, using CDs at 0.5 mg mL(-1) and H2O2 at 73.5 mM for 25 h. The dye degradation rate was determined as well as the toxicity of the treated solutions using the Microtox (R) bioassay. Further, to determine the changes in the groundwater mi-crobial community, 16 S rRNA sequencing was used and evenness and diversity indices were analysed using Pielou's evenness and Simpson index, respectively. This study revealed that dye-containing groundwater were effectively treated by CDs showing a degradation rate of 78-82% and a significant 4-fold reduction in the toxicity. Characterisation of the groundwater microbiota revealed a predominance of at least 60% Proteobacteria phylum in all samples where diversity and evenness were maintained throughout the remediation process. The results showed that CDs could be an efficient approach to treat polluted groundwater and potentially have minimum impact on the environmental microbiome.		[Beker, Sabrina A.; Khudur, Leadin S.; Krohn, Christian; Ball, Andrew S.] RMIT Univ, Sch Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia; [Cole, Ivan] RMIT Univ, Sch Engn, Adv Mfg & Fabricat, Melbourne, Vic 3000, Australia; [Beker, Sabrina A.] RMIT Univ, Sch Sci, Bundoora, Vic 3083, Australia								4							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000828395800006		
J	Lopez, Eduardo								Peracarid Assemblages in a Human-Disturbed Location from South-Western Mediterranean Sea: Role of Surface Orientation and Phytal Structure of the Habitat								THALASSAS				38	2			1175	1186		10.1007/s41208-022-00455-z			OCT 2022	2022	The goal of this investigation was to assess the role of a number of environmental variables on the traits of a peracarid population inhabiting turfs of Ellisolandia elongata in a Mediterranean disturbed location. Samples were collected from a vertical and a horizontal surface to assess the role of orientation, and several structural traits of the turf (number of fronds, their height and width, available phytal area for colonization, and dry weight) were measured. The samples were characterized by their species composition, relative abundance of constant species, total abundance of individuals, and alpha-diversity (species richness, Shannon index and Pielou's evenness). Generalized linear models were used to relate environmental variables with ecological descriptors, whereas a cluster plot and a principal correspondence analysis, both based on the Bray-Curtis coefficient, were conducted to detect the presence of distinct assemblages. Results showed orientation to be a key factor governing the assemblages, since samples from vertical and horizontal surfaces formed definite groups based on Bray-Curtis similarities. Moreover, GLMs pointed out that orientation influenced relative abundance of the majority of constant species, as well as species richness and Shannon index. Phytal height had a positive effect on the relative abundances of Hexapleomera bultidactyla, Coxischyrocerus inexpectatus and Hyale stebbingi, and a negative one on Shannon index and evenness, whereas available phytal area influenced positively evenness and negatively the relative abundance of Elasmopus pocillimanus. Thus, it can be inferred that although species composition depended on surface orientation, the spatial structure of the turf was the main driver for assemblage complexity.		[Lopez, Eduardo] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac Sci, Ctr Invest Biodiversidad & Cambio Global CIBC UAM, Dept Biol, C Darwin 2, Madrid 28049, Spain; [Lopez, Eduardo] Univ Autonoma Madrid, Fac Sci, Ctr Invest Biodiversidad & Cambio Global CIBC UAM, Dept Biol, C Darwin 2, Madrid 28049, Spain								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000819893000001		
J	Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Li, Yuan-jie; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi								Diversity and Structure of Demersal Fish Community Over the Northern Slope in the South China Sea								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				9						809636	10.3389/fmars.2022.809636			JUN 16 2022	2022	Three bottom trawl surveys over the northern continental slope in the South China Sea (18 degrees 50 '-20 degrees 40 ' N, 112 degrees 50 '-115 degrees 10 ' E) were carried out, in June 2015, March 2017 and September 2018, to investigate species composition, biodiversity and community structure of demersal fish. Surveys in 2015, 2017 and 2018 captured 97 fish species (representing 77 genera, 52 families, 26 orders), 108 fish species (representing 84 genera, 61 families, 19 orders) and 126 fish species (representing 105 genera, 74 families, 25 orders), respectively. Three surveys captured a total of 252 fish species, representing 164 genera, 97 families, 30 orders. Perciformes dominated. Species richness in station linking shallow continental shelf with deep slope was the lowest among stations. In three surveys, 16 species occurred in the catches of three surveys, accounting for 6.35% of all species. Species replacement rate between stations showed a significant linear relationship with the depth difference and latitude difference. Margalef's species richness index (D), Shannon-Weiner diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J') among stations ranged 2.65-6.74, 1.02-4.15 and 0.28-1.14, respectively. Differences of D, H' and J' were insignificant among seasons. There were significant positive linear relations between H' and J' and latitude. D, H' and J' decreased with increasing sampling depth, however the relations were not significant. Based on multivariate statistical analysis, fish community at species level was divided into five groups with average dissimilarities of 95.69%-99.96%. In terms of genus and family, average dissimilarities among groups were more than 88.11% and 82.69%. There were significant differences in species composition between depths, but no significant differences between seasons and temperatures, as well as in genus and family composition.		[Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Li, Yuan-jie; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzhou, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Zhang, Kui; Jiang, Yan-e; Fan, Jiang-tao; Yu, Wen-ming; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Open Sea Fishery, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Big Data South China Sea Fishery Resources, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzhou, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Open Sea Fishery, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun; Chen, Zuo-zhi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Key Lab Big Data South China Sea Fishery Resources, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000819303000001		
J	Zhang, Yanyan; Zhang, Ruiyu; Liu, Penghong; Wang, Jizhi; Gao, Mingxue; Zhang, Jie; Yang, Jun; Yang, Chunxia; Zhang, Yu; Sun, Ning								Characteristics and Mediating Effect of Gut Microbiota With Experience of Childhood Maltreatment in Major Depressive Disorder								FRONTIERS IN NEUROSCIENCE				16						926450	10.3389/fnins.2022.926450			JUN 14 2022	2022	Gut microbiota and childhood maltreatment are closely related to depressive symptoms. This study aimed to analyze the characteristics of gut microbiota in major depressive disorder (MDD) patients with childhood maltreatment experience and explore the correlation between gut microbiota, childhood maltreatment, and depressive symptoms. A total of 37 healthy controls (HCs) and 53 patients with MDD were enrolled, including 18 MDD patients without childhood maltreatment experience and 35 MDD patients with childhood maltreatment experience. The Hamilton's Depression Scale (HAMD-24) and Childhood Trauma Questionnaire-Short Form (CTQ-SF) were used to evaluate their depressive symptoms and childhood maltreatment experience, respectively. The composition of gut microbiota was evaluated using 16S rRNA sequencing. Spearman's correlation analysis was used to evaluate the correlation between different gut microbiota, depressive symptoms and childhood maltreatment. The mediation analysis was used to evaluate the mediating effect of gut microbiota. In the alpha-diversity analysis, we found that the Simpson index and Pielou's Evenness index differed significantly between MDD patients without childhood maltreatment experience and HCs. In the beta-diversity analysis, principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) showed significant differences between MDD patients without childhood maltreatment experience, MDD patients with childhood maltreatment experience and HCs. Twenty-seven different bacteria were identified through Linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) analysis at different levels of classification. The analysis of the correlation showed that Blautia, Bifidobacterium, Bacteroides, Roseburia, and Phascolarctobacterium were significantly correlated with HAMD and CTQ-SF scores. The mediation analysis showed that childhood maltreatment had a significant direct effect on the patients' depressive symptoms, and Blautia, Bifidobacterium, Roseburia had a significant mediating effect. The findings of this study suggested that MDD patients with childhood maltreatment experience had different gut microbiota, which might have a mediating effect on the influence of childhood maltreatment on depressive symptoms.		[Zhang, Yanyan; Zhang, Ruiyu; Liu, Penghong; Wang, Jizhi; Gao, Mingxue; Zhang, Jie; Yang, Jun; Yang, Chunxia; Sun, Ning] Shanxi Med Univ, Dept Psychiat, Hosp 1, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yanyan; Zhang, Yu] Shanxi Med Univ, Dept Physiol, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yanyan; Zhang, Yu] Shanxi Med Univ, Key Lab Cellular Physiol, Minist Educ, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Ruiyu; Liu, Penghong; Wang, Jizhi; Gao, Mingxue; Zhang, Jie; Yang, Jun; Sun, Ning] Shanxi Med Univ, Clin Med Coll 1, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Sun, Ning] Shanxi Med Univ, Dept Psychiat, Hosp 1, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yu] Shanxi Med Univ, Dept Physiol, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Yu] Shanxi Med Univ, Key Lab Cellular Physiol, Minist Educ, Taiyuan, Peoples R China; [Sun, Ning] Shanxi Med Univ, Clin Med Coll 1, Taiyuan, Peoples R China								7							Neurosciences	WOS:000817581900001		
J	Zeng, Qinghui; Wei, Zhengling; Yi, Chai; He, Yongfeng; Luo, Mingzhong								The effect of different coverage of aquatic plants on the phytoplankton and zooplankton community structures: a study based on a shallow macrophytic lake								AQUATIC ECOLOGY				56	4			1347	1358		10.1007/s10452-022-09970-w			DEC 2022	2022	Understanding the effect of different coverage of aquatic plants on the characteristics of the phytoplankton community structure is beneficial for management of lakes and protection of the aquatic ecosystems. In the present study, the effect of aquatic plants coverage on plankton community structure in a shallow macrophytic lake located in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River was investigated by dividing the lake into low, median, and high coverage habitats. Furthermore, the characteristics of phytoplankton and zooplankton community structures, and physicochemical indexes of lake water in the three habitats were analyzed. The results showed that an increase in aquatic plant coverage effectively reduced total phosphorus and total nitrogen in water and reduce the risks posed by phytoplankton blooms. Phytoplankton populations fluctuated slightly, and cyanobacteria density decreased in the medium coverage habitat when compared to those in the low coverage habitat. The phytoplankton species and quantity increased, and the lake water stability was enhanced in low coverage habitat when compared to those in the high coverage habitat. Zooplankton density, biodiversity index, and Pielou's evenness index of the medium coverage habitat were higher than those of the low and high coverage habitats. Our results suggest that to improve the stability of shallow lake water environment, the coverage of aquatic plants should be maintained at 26.7-33.1% based on the physicochemical properties of water bodies and variations in phytoplankton community structure.		[Zeng, Qinghui; Wei, Zhengling; Yi, Chai; Luo, Mingzhong] Yangtze Univ, Coll Anim Sci, Hubei Key Lab Waterlogging Disaster & Agr Use Wet, Minist Educ,Engn Res Ctr Ecol & Agr Use Wetland, Jingzhou 434025, Peoples R China; [He, Yongfeng; Luo, Mingzhong] CAFS, Key Lab Freshwater Biodivers Conservat, Yangtze River Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr & Rural Affairs China, Wuhan 430223, Peoples R China; [Luo, Mingzhong] Yangtze Univ, Coll Anim Sci, Hubei Key Lab Waterlogging Disaster & Agr Use Wet, Minist Educ,Engn Res Ctr Ecol & Agr Use Wetland, Jingzhou 434025, Peoples R China								2							Ecology; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000809549000001		
J	Dusabe, Marie Claire; Neubauer, Thomas A.; Muvundja, Fabrice A.; Hyangya, Beni L.; Albrecht, Christian								Family-Level Bio-Indication Does not Detect the Impacts of Dams on Macroinvertebrate Communities in a Low-Diversity Tropical River								FRONTIERS IN ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE				10						902246	10.3389/fenvs.2022.902246			JUN 1 2022	2022	The Ruzizi River, the outlet of Lake Kivu in the Albertine Rift, flows into Lake Tanganyika and is important for hydropower generation and irrigation. The impacts of 2 dams in the Ruzizi River on macroinvertebrate community composition and diversity were surveyed every 3 months from December 2015 to October 2017. Macroinvertebrate samples were collected at sites upstream and downstream and additionally at two sites further downstream of the dams, in both comparatively pristine and highly disturbed areas. Several indices (Shannon-Wiener index, Simpson index, Pielou's evenness, Rare Family Prevalence, and Average Score Per Taxa) were used to determine the alpha diversity and evenness of macroinvertebrates at the family level. Our results showed little to no immediate effect of the dams on macroinvertebrate diversity. Macroinvertebrate composition differed slightly below the dams compared to upstream. Communities near Dam II had slightly higher diversity compared to Dam I, probably because the vicinity to Lake Kivu has an immediate effect on diversity upstream of the first dam and likely because Dam II is 30 years younger than Dam I. This study suggests the importance of using species-level indices to better understand the ecological impacts of dams on macroinvertebrate diversity of tropical rivers with low species diversity.		[Dusabe, Marie Claire; Neubauer, Thomas A.; Albrecht, Christian] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Dept Anim Ecol & Systemat, Giessen, Germany; [Neubauer, Thomas A.] Nat Biodivers Ctr, Leiden, Netherlands; [Muvundja, Fabrice A.; Hyangya, Beni L.] Inst Super Pedag Bukavu, Dept Biol Chim, Unite Enseignement & Rech Hydrobiol Appl UERHA, Sect Sci Exactes, Bukavu, DEM REP CONGO; [Muvundja, Fabrice A.] Univ Catholique Bukavu UCB, Ctr Rech Environm & Geo Ressources, Bukavo, DEM REP CONGO; [Albrecht, Christian] Mbarara Univ Sci & Technol MUST, Dept Biol, Mbarara, Uganda; [Dusabe, Marie Claire] Justus Liebig Univ Giessen, Dept Anim Ecol & Systemat, Giessen, Germany								2							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000811658700001		
J	Arkhipov, A. G.; Kolomeiko, F., V; Pak, R. A.								Assessment of the Species Diversity of Ichthyoplankton in the Northern Part of the Central Eastern Atlantic								JOURNAL OF ICHTHYOLOGY				62	3			421	427		10.1134/S0032945222020011			JUN 2022	2022	Based on the materials of long-term (2000-2019) studies of ichthyoplankton in the adjacent areas of the northern part of the Central Eastern Atlantic (exclusive economic zones of the northern and southern parts of Morocco and Mauritania), the species diversity of the ichthyoplankton has been studied using various indices that are widespread in ecological and faunistic research. A general trend towards an increase in the species diversity from the northern part of Morocco to the area of Mauritania has been revealed (the average values of the Margalef index increase from 4.63 to 7.02). The ichthyoplankton assemblages of the study areas are characterized by a medium and high biotic diversity (Simpson's index 0.22-0.90); different degrees of their monodominance are observed more often (in 25 of the 44 observations, Pielou's evenness index was less than 0.5) than the relatively equal abundance of all species. In the northern part of Morocco, similar trends have been revealed in the dynamics of diversity indices and abundance indices for European pilchard Sardina pilchardus at its early development stages; in the southern part of Morocco and in Mauritania, the trends in the diversity and abundance dynamics are similar in round sardinella Sardinella aurita. In the ichthyoplankton of the study areas, the dominant species is S. pilchardus and subdominant species are S. aurita, European anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, and sparids (Sparidae).		[Arkhipov, A. G.; Kolomeiko, F., V; Pak, R. A.] Atlantic Res Inst Fisheries & Oceanog AtlantNIRO, Kaliningrad, Russia; [Arkhipov, A. G.] Atlantic Res Inst Fisheries & Oceanog AtlantNIRO, Kaliningrad, Russia								0							Fisheries; Zoology	WOS:000811786000007		
J	Mueller, Margaret G.; Das, Promi; Andy, Uduak; Brennaman, Lisa; Dieter, Alexis A.; Dwarica, Denicia; Kirby, Anna C.; Shepherd, Jonathan P.; Gregory, W. Thomas; Amundsen, Cindy L.								Longitudinal urinary microbiome characteristics in women with urgency urinary incontinence undergoing sacral neuromodulation								INTERNATIONAL UROGYNECOLOGY JOURNAL				34	2			517	525		10.1007/s00192-022-05219-0			FEB 2023	2023	Introduction and hypothesis The objective was to evaluate the stability of the urinary microbiome communities in women undergoing sacral neuromodulation (SNM) for urgency urinary incontinence (UUI). We hypothesized that clinical response to SNM therapy would be associated with changes in the urinary microbiome. Methods Women completed the Overactive Bladder Questionnaire Short-Form, the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form, and the Female Sexual Function Index at baseline and 3 months post-SNM implantation. Transurethral urinary specimens were obtained for microbiome analysis at baseline and 3 months postoperatively. The V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene (515F-806R) was amplified with region-specific primers, and Amplicon Sequence Variants (ASVs) were identified with a closed-reference approach of taxonomic classification. Alpha-diversity was calculated using the phylogenetic (i.e., Faith's phylogenetic diversity) and nonphylogenetic metrics (i.e., Shannon diversity, and Pielou's evenness) using the QIIME2 plugin. Longitudinal paired volatility analysis was performed using the DEICODE and Gemelli plugin to account for host specificity across both time and space. Results Nineteen women who underwent SNM and provided both baseline and 3-month urine samples were included in this analysis. Women reported improvement in objective (number of UUI episodes) and subjective (symptom severity and health-related quality of life) measures. Ninety percent of the bacteria were classified as Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, and Actinobacteria. No significant differences were observed in each subject's beta-diversity at 3 months compared with their baseline microbiome. Conclusions Our descriptive pilot study of a cohort of women who had achieved objective and subjective improvements in UUI following SNM therapy demonstrates that the urinary microbiome remains relatively stable, despite variability amongst the cohort.		[Mueller, Margaret G.] Northwestern Univ, 250 E Super St,Suite 05-2113, Chicago, IL 60611 USA; [Das, Promi] Univ Calif San Diego, San Diego, CA 92103 USA; [Andy, Uduak] Univ Penn, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Brennaman, Lisa; Dwarica, Denicia] Univ Missouri, Columbia, MO USA; [Dieter, Alexis A.] Univ N Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27515 USA; [Kirby, Anna C.] Univ Washington, Seattle, WA 98195 USA; [Shepherd, Jonathan P.] Quinnipiac Univ, Hartford, CT USA; [Gregory, W. Thomas] Oregon Hlth & Sci Univ, Portland, OR 97201 USA; [Amundsen, Cindy L.] Duke Univ, Durham, NC USA; [Mueller, Margaret G.] Northwestern Univ, 250 E Super St,Suite 05-2113, Chicago, IL 60611 USA								1							Obstetrics & Gynecology; Urology & Nephrology	WOS:000801062100002		
J	Ekoko, W. A.; Qu, G. J.; Liu, M. H.; Shabani, I. E.								BENTHIC MACROINVERTEBRATE DIVERSITY AND WATER QUALITY BIOASSESSMENT OF THE CENTRAL LAKE IN QINGTONGXIA RESERVOIR WETLAND NATURE RESERVE, CHINA								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				20	4			3379	3392		10.15666/aeer/2004_33793392			2022	2022	The lake is a dynamic lentic ecosystem subject to different pressures that influence and compromise its ecological structure. The main aim of this study was to evaluate the potential of using the benthic macroinvertebrate to assess the water quality. Ten sites were sampled in spring, summer and autumn in 2021. We collected 969 individuals of benthic macroinvertebrates belonging to 42 species and 22 families. Leander modestus (Palaemonidae) with 48.71%, followed by Radix ovata (Lymnaeidae) with 18.27% were the most abundant species and collected at all study sites in all seasons. We used biological indices, including Shannon index (H'), Pielou's evenness index (J) and biological monitoring working party (BMWP). This study showed H' scores ranged from 0.65 to 2.18, Pielou's evenness index ( J) scores fluctuated from 0.21 to 0.68 and BMWP values assessed ranging from 19 to 40. Our findings showed that the water quality of the Central Lake ranged from polluted to slightly impacted or "poor to good". Further water resource management and the pollution control should be a high priority to prevent benthic organisms in this lake.		[Ekoko, W. A.; Liu, M. H.; Shabani, I. E.] Northeast Forestry Univ, Dept Ecol, Coll Wildlife & Protected Area, POB 150040, Harbin, Peoples R China; [Ekoko, W. A.] Univ Kisangani, Dept Water & Forest, POB 2012, Kisangani, Rep Congo; [Qu, G. J.] Jilin Agr Univ, Key Lab Anim Prod Product Qual & Secur, Minist Educ, POB 130118, Changchun, Peoples R China; [Shabani, I. E.] Official Univ Bukavu, POB 570, Bukavu, Rep Congo; [Liu, M. H.] Northeast Forestry Univ, Dept Ecol, Coll Wildlife & Protected Area, POB 150040, Harbin, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000834354600001		
J	Asare, Desmond; Ansong, Michael; Kyereh, Boateng; Damptey, Frederick Gyasi; Asante, Winston Adams								Mining methods exert differential effects on species recruitment at artisanal small-scale mining sites in Ghana								HELIYON				8	5					e09434	10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e09434			MAY 2022	2022	Artisanal small-scale mining (ASM) is one of the essential rural non-agricultural livelihood activities in Ghana. However, basic and rudimentary practices and tools associated with ASM activities lead to vegetation and soil destruction. Given the limitation of state-sponsored reclamation of abandoned ASM sites, the role of natural recovery in abandoned mine sites is deemed a viable option, as it lowers financial obligations, promotes pioneer species and improves local ecology. The residual impacts of different ASM methods (alluvial or chamfi) and their implications for reclamation are less explored. Using a randomised sampling approach, one hundred and eight (108) plots representing 54 abandoned mined (27 alluvial and 27 chamfi) and 54 unmined areas (control plots) were demarcated for seedling and sapling assessments. A total of 6,157 seedlings belonging to 133 species and 4,536 saplings belonging to 42 species were recorded. Pielou's evenness and Shannon indices showed that both seedlings and saplings were equitably distributed between mined-out sites and their controls for both methods but showed evidence of environmental variability. This variability was more conspicuous in chamfi mined-out sites, confirming some degradation impacts. Chromolaena odorata (L.) and Mimosa pudica L. were the dominant seedlings recorded, while Hymenostegia afzelii (Oliv.) Harms and Musanga cecropioides M. Smithii R. Br. dominated the saplings. The alluvial method exerted a far greater effect on stand features such as basal area and stand density for saplings owing to its greater soil damage. Assisted restoration measures directed at abandoned mined sites can facilitate ecosystem recovery to a trajectory reminiscent of that of nearby undisturbed forests.		[Asare, Desmond; Ansong, Michael; Kyereh, Boateng; Asante, Winston Adams] Kwame Nkrumah Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Renewable Nat Resources, Dept Silviculture & Forest Management, Private Mail Bag, Kumasi, Ashanti, Ghana; [Damptey, Frederick Gyasi] Brandenburg Univ Technol Cottbus Senftenberg, Dept Ecol, D-03046 Cottbus, Germany; [Asare, Desmond] Kwame Nkrumah Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Renewable Nat Resources, Dept Silviculture & Forest Management, Private Mail Bag, Kumasi, Ashanti, Ghana								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000806939500010		
J	Kumar, Pavan; Dobriyal, Manmohan; Kale, Amey; Pandey, A. K.; Tomar, R. S.; Thounaojam, Elizabeth								Calculating forest species diversity with information-theory based indices using sentinel-2A sensor's of Mahavir Swami Wildlife Sanctuary								PLOS ONE				17	5					e0268018	10.1371/journal.pone.0268018			MAY 18 2022	2022	Tropical forest serves as an important pivotal role in terrestrial biological diversity. The present study makes an attempt to identify the concentration of species among tree diversity in Mahavir Swami Wildlife Sanctuary, Bundelkhand, India. Four important ecological indicator indices namely Shannon-Weiner index (H'), Simpson's diversity (D), Margalef index (SR) and Pielou's (J) indices were make the most for species diversity measurement. The research outcomes revealed that Shannon-Weiner diversity index (H/) was found to be the best index for assessing species richness while Simpson's diversity (D) index was more suited for determining species diversity. The Shannon-Weiner index value calculated for different transects not only represent the species richness but also the species evenness in each transect. The potential application of forest diversity can be used a mechanism for forest management. The methodology will retrofit better policy implementation for maintaining the health of forest species in Mahavir Swami Wildlife Sanctuary and can be applied on other reserve forest of socio-ecological significance.		[Kumar, Pavan; Dobriyal, Manmohan; Kale, Amey; Pandey, A. K.; Tomar, R. S.; Thounaojam, Elizabeth] Rani Lakshmi Bai Cent Agr Univ, Coll Hort & Forestry, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Kumar, Pavan] Rani Lakshmi Bai Cent Agr Univ, Coll Hort & Forestry, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh, India								11							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001122477000004		
J	Rossbach, Felix Ivo; Casoli, Edoardo; Plewka, Julia; Schmidt, Neele; Wild, Christian								New Insights into a Mediterranean Sea Benthic Habitat: High Diversity of Epiphytic Bryozoan Assemblages on <i>Phyllophora crispa</i> (Rhodophyta) Mats								DIVERSITY-BASEL				14	5					346	10.3390/d14050346			MAY 2022	2022	With its geographically isolated location and geological history, the Mediterranean Sea harbors well-known biodiversity hotspots, such as Posidonia oceanica seagrass meadows. Recently, long-living mats formed by the fleshy red alga Phyllophora crispa have been described to be associated with a high diversity of sessile invertebrates in the Tyrrhenian Sea. One of the key taxa among these sessile invertebrates are bryozoans: their abundance, diversity, and spatial distribution in P. crispa mats represent a gap in scientific knowledge. Thus, we conducted a pilot study on bryozoan assemblages associated with P. crispa mats around Giglio Island (Tuscan Archipelago, Italy) in 2018, followed by a comparative study on four sites distributed around the island in the subsequent year, 2019. We compared these findings to bryozoan abundance and diversity on P. oceanica shoots and leaves during the second expedition. The findings revealed more than 46 families, with a significantly higher number of taxa identified in P. crispa mats (33) than in P. oceanica meadows (29). The Shannon diversity index was similar between P. crispa and P. oceanica shoots, while Pielou's evenness index was lower in P. crispa mats. The most abundant families reported across all habitats were Crisiidae, Aetidae, and Lichenoporidae; but the most abundant family on P. crispa was Chlidoniidae (Chlidonia pyriformis). The assemblages associated with P. crispa differed among sites, with higher abundances but lower diversity on the exposed southernmost site. The total bryozoan abundance was significantly higher on P. crispa (average 2.83 x 10(6) +/- 1.99 x 10(6) colonies per m(2) seafloor) compared to P. oceanica meadows (average 0.54 x 10(6) +/- 0.34 x 10(6) colonies per m(2) seafloor). Our results show a high diversity of bryozoans on P. crispa thalli compared to P. oceanica meadows, which was consistent throughout the study. These findings confirm the value of the red alga-generated habitat for associated bryozoans and may have implications for future biodiversity assessments and conservation measures.		[Rossbach, Felix Ivo; Plewka, Julia; Schmidt, Neele; Wild, Christian] Univ Bremen, Fac Biol & Chem, Marine Ecol Dept, D-28359 Bremen, Germany; [Casoli, Edoardo] Sapienza Univ Rome, Dept Environm Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Schmidt, Neele] Uppsala Univ, Dept Ecol & Genet, Anim Ecol, S-75236 Uppsala, Sweden; [Rossbach, Felix Ivo] Univ Bremen, Fac Biol & Chem, Marine Ecol Dept, D-28359 Bremen, Germany								3							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000801479700001		
J	Aponte, Humberto; Galindo-Castaneda, Tania; Yanez, Carolina; Hartmann, Martin; Rojas, Claudia								Microbial Community-Level Physiological Profiles and Genetic Prokaryotic Structure of Burned Soils Under Mediterranean Sclerophyll Forests in Central Chile								FRONTIERS IN MICROBIOLOGY				13						824813	10.3389/fmicb.2022.824813			APR 28 2022	2022	Forest fires alter soil microbial communities that are essential to support ecosystem recovery following land burning. These alterations have different responses according to soil abiotic pre- and post-fire conditions and fire severity, among others, and tend to decrease along vegetation recovery over time. Thus, understanding the effects of fires on microbial soil communities is critical to evaluate ecosystem resilience and restoration strategies in fire-prone ecosystems. We studied the state of community-level physiological profiles (CLPPs) and the prokaryotic community structure of rhizosphere and bulk soils from two fire-affected sclerophyll forests (one surveyed 17 months and the other 33 months after fire occurrence) in the Mediterranean climate zone of central Chile. Increases in catabolic activity (by average well color development of CLPPs), especially in the rhizosphere as compared with the bulk soil, were observed in the most recently affected site only. Legacy of land burning was still clearly shaping soil prokaryote community structure, as shown by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene, particularly in the most recent fire-affected site. The qPCR copy numbers and alpha diversity indexes (Shannon and Pielou's evenness) of sequencing data decreased in burned soils at both locations. Beta diversity analyses showed dissimilarity of prokaryote communities at both study sites according to fire occurrence, and NO3- was the common variable explaining community changes for both of them. Acidobacteria and Rokubacteria phyla significantly decreased in burned soils at both locations, while Firmicutes and Actinobacteria increased. These findings provide a better understanding of the resilience of soil prokaryote communities and their physiological conditions in Mediterranean forests of central Chile following different time periods after fire, conditions that likely influence the ecological processes taking place during recovery of fire-affected ecosystems.		[Aponte, Humberto; Rojas, Claudia] Univ OHiggins, Inst Agrifood Anim & Environm Sci ICA3, Lab Soil Microbial Ecol & Biogeochem LEMiBiS, San Fernando, Chile; [Aponte, Humberto; Rojas, Claudia] Ctr Appl Ecol & Sustainabil CAPES, Santiago, Chile; [Galindo-Castaneda, Tania; Hartmann, Martin] Swiss Fed Inst Technol, Dept Environm Syst Sci, Sustainable Agroecosystems, Zurich, Switzerland; [Yanez, Carolina] Pontificia Univ Catolica Valparaiso, Inst Biol, Valparaiso, Chile; [Rojas, Claudia] Univ OHiggins, Inst Agrifood Anim & Environm Sci ICA3, Lab Soil Microbial Ecol & Biogeochem LEMiBiS, San Fernando, Chile; [Rojas, Claudia] Ctr Appl Ecol & Sustainabil CAPES, Santiago, Chile								4							Microbiology	WOS:000795889900001		
J	Steinfurth, Rune C.; Lange, Troels; Oncken, Nele S.; Kristensen, Erik; Quintana, Cintia O.; Flindt, Mogens R.								Improved benthic fauna community parameters after large-scale eelgrass (<i>Zostera marina</i>) restoration in Horsens Fjord, Denmark								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				687				65	+		10.3354/meps14007			APR 7 2022	2022	Eutrophication is a key driver in the loss of marine ecosystems, and seagrass meadows are among the many ecosystems which have declined globally during the last decades. Seagrass restoration is being used worldwide in coastal areas to counteract the decline in areal extent and to promote biodiversity. This study assesses the spatial and temporal changes in benthic fauna composition after a successful large-scale eelgrass (Zostera marina) transplantation in Horsens Fjord, Denmark. Transplantation was done by anchoring individual shoots in the sediment. Subsequently, benthic fauna was compared among bare bottom (BB), transplanted eelgrass (TE) and a natural eelgrass (NE) meadow in Horsens Fjord. Species richness (S), abundance (N), Shannon-Wiener index (H'), Pielou's evenness (J') and biomass (B) of benthic fauna were significantly higher at TE and NE than at BB. S, H' and J' were not different between TE and NE, but Nand B were. Furthermore, S, N and B showed significant year-to-year variation, with the highest values occurring the same year as peak eelgrass biomass at both TE and NE, and S, N and H' correlated positively with dry eelgrass biomass. Increases in community parameters were achieved at TE at least 1 yr 2 mo after transplantation, and a higher diversity of feeding groups was found. However, the ecological status of fauna at TE was in a transition state towards that at NE, according to the Water Framework Directive. The fast succession of benthic fauna proved that successful largescale transplantation of eelgrass can restore fauna communities very quickly.		[Steinfurth, Rune C.; Lange, Troels; Oncken, Nele S.; Kristensen, Erik; Quintana, Cintia O.; Flindt, Mogens R.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Biol, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark; [Oncken, Nele S.] German Fed Inst Hydrol, Unit U2, D-56068 Koblenz, Germany; [Steinfurth, Rune C.] Univ Southern Denmark, Dept Biol, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark								2							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000789178300004		
J	Sogawa, Sayaka; Nakamura, Yasuhide; Nagai, Satoshi; Nishi, Noriko; Hidaka, Kiyotaka; Shimizu, Yugo; Setou, Takashi								DNA metabarcoding reveals vertical variation and hidden diversity of Alveolata and Rhizaria communities in the western North Pacific								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS				183						103765	10.1016/j.dsr.2022.103765			MAY 2022	2022	Metabarcoding technology using high-throughput sequencing has revolutionized the current understanding of the diversity and ecology of eukaryotic microorganisms. The aim of the present study was to investigate vertical and seasonal variation in eukaryotic plankton communities and to assess the diversity of eukaryotic plankton, using 18S rRNA sequencing, over a depth gradient in subtropical waters affected by the Kuroshio Current. In particular, the present study focused on the diversity and ecology of Alveolata and Rhizaria taxa, which include a variety of plankton species with fragile skeletons or soft bodies. Three vertically distinct eukaryotic communities were identified: the Kuroshio-influenced epipelagic zone (<200 m), the North Pacific Intermediate Water (NPIW)-dominated mesopelagic zone (500-1000 m), and the bathypelagic zone (2000-3000 m). The operational taxonomic unit (OTU) richness was greatest near the surface (<200 m depth), gradually decreasing with increasing depth, and lowest in deeper layers, and OTU diversity (Pielou's evenness and Shannon-Wiener diversity indices) were lowest in the mesopelagic layer (500-1000 m depth). Hidden diversity was observed in both groups in both the surface and deeper layers of the western North Pacific, as well as in the NPIW, which was characterized by the lowest salinity and oxygen concentrations in the study area. In the NPIW, the Rhizaria yielded relatively more sequence reads than other taxa. Furthermore, specific taxa, such as Collodaria (Radiolaria), Syndiniales (dinoflagellates), and Oligohymenophorea (ciliates), were predominant, according to OTU richness and the relative abundance of sequence reads. These findings indicate that a unique ecosystem was formed over time in the NPIW-isolated water mass.		[Sogawa, Sayaka; Nagai, Satoshi; Hidaka, Kiyotaka; Shimizu, Yugo; Setou, Takashi] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Fisheries Resources Inst, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan; [Nakamura, Yasuhide] Shimane Univ, Estuary Res Ctr, 1060 Nishikawatsu Cho, Matsue, Shimane 6908504, Japan; [Nishi, Noriko] AXIOHELIX Co Ltd, Chiyoda Ku, 1-12-17 Kandaizumicho, Tokyo 1010024, Japan; [Sogawa, Sayaka] Japan Fisheries Res & Educ Agcy, Fisheries Resources Inst, Kanazawa Ku, 2-12-4 Fukuura, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2368648, Japan								4							Oceanography	WOS:000804812800002		
J	Li, Jia; Morrow, Casey; Barnes, Stephen; Wilson, Landon; Womack, Erika D.; McLain, Amie; Yarar-Fisher, Ceren								Gut Microbiome Composition and Serum Metabolome Profile Among Individuals With Spinal Cord Injury and Normal Glucose Tolerance or Prediabetes/Type 2 Diabetes								ARCHIVES OF PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND REHABILITATION				103	4			702	710		10.1016/j.apmr.2021.03.043			APR 2022	2022	Objective: To compare the gut microbiome composition and serum metabolome profile among individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI) and nor-mal glucose tolerance (NGT) or prediabetes/type 2 diabetes (preDM/T2D).Design: Cross-sectional design.Setting: Research university.Participants: A total of 25 adults (N=25) with SCI were included in the analysis and categorized as NGT (n=16) or preDM/T2D (n=9) based on their glucose concentration at minute 120 during a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test. The American Diabetes Association diagnosis guideline was used for grouping participants.Interventions: Not applicable.Main Outcome Measures: A stool sample was collected and used to assess the gut microbiome composition (alpha and beta diversity, microbial abundance) via the 16s ribosomal RNA sequencing technique. A fasting serum sample was used for liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry -based untargeted metabolomics analysis, the results from which reflect the relative quantity of metabolites detected and identified. Gut micro-biome and metabolomics data were analyzed by the Quantitative Insights into Microbial Ecology 2 and Metaboanalyst platforms, respectively.Results: Gut microbiome alpha diversity (Pielou's evenness index, Shannon's index) and beta diversity (weighted UniFrac distances) differed between groups. Compared with participants with NGT, participants with preDM/T2D had less evenness in microbial communities. In particular, those with preDM/T2D had a lower abundance of the Clostridiales order and higher abundance of the Akkermansia genus, as well as higher serum levels of gut-derived metabolites, including indoxyl sulfate and phenylacetylglutamine (P < .05 for all).Conclusions: Our results provide evidence for altered gut microbiome composition and dysregulation of gut-derived metabolites in participants with SCI and preDM/T2D. Both indoxyl sulfate and phenylacetylglutamine have been implicated in the development of cardiovascular diseases in the able-bodied population. These findings may inform future investigations in the field of SCI and cardiometabolic health. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 2022;103:702-10 (c) 2021 The American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.		[Li, Jia; Womack, Erika D.; McLain, Amie; Yarar-Fisher, Ceren] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Phys Med, Birmingham, AL USA; [Morrow, Casey] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Cell Dev & Integrat Biol, Birmingham, AL USA; [Barnes, Stephen; Wilson, Landon] Univ Alabama Birmingham, Dept Pharmacol & Toxicol, Birmingham, AL USA; [Yarar-Fisher, Ceren] UAB Sch Med, Dept Phys Med & Rehabil, Shelby Bldg 503,1825 Univ Blvd, Birmingham, AL 35233 USA								11							Rehabilitation; Sport Sciences	WOS:000791338900011		
J	Panchal, Suryakant; Ghosh, Arpita; Koti, Prerana; Singh, Namita								Elucidation of molecular diversity and functional characterization of phenanthrene degrading consortium NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5								BIOREMEDIATION JOURNAL				27	4			422	433		10.1080/10889868.2022.2059439			OCT 2 2023	2023	Phenanthrene (PHE) is a hazardous low molecular weight PAH and widespread ecological contaminant. In the present study, the Illumina Miseq platform explored the bacterial diversity of the efficient PHE degrading consortium NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5, developed from the petrochemical contaminated soil near the Indian Oil Corporation Limited refinery, Panipat (India). Total 273 OTUs represented the species diversity identified in NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5. Nineteen major bacterial species covered approximately 99.22% of the total alpha-diversity of NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5. In NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5, the Shannon alpha diversity (H') and Pielou's Evenness Index (J') were calculated at 2.43 and 0.43, respectively. Moreover, an overwhelming population of phylum Proteobacteria (99.28%) and Pseudomonas spp. (32.25%) were observed in NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5. Two culturable isolates, PAH 51 and PAH 52, were isolated from the NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5, and the result of 16S rRNA analysis showed homology with Bacillus wiedmannii (96.7%) and Achromobacter pulmonis (99.24%), respectively. The results of the carbohydrate utilization test showed that NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5 was able to metabolize dextrose, L-arabinose, ONPG, esculin, citrate, and malonate. Detection of phthalic acid metabolite by the GCMS analysis inferred that NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5 bio-degraded the PHE through the protocatechuic acid pathway. During the seven-day biodegradation experiment at the optimized physicochemical conditions, NS-PAH-2015-PNP-5 degraded 62%, 70%, 90% PHE after the third, fifth, and seventh day, respectively.		[Panchal, Suryakant; Singh, Namita] Guru Jambheshwar Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Bio & Nano Technol, Microbial Biotechnol, Lab 202, Hisar 125001, Haryana, India; [Ghosh, Arpita; Koti, Prerana] Eurofins Genom India Private Ltd, Bengaluru, India; [Singh, Namita] Guru Jambheshwar Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Bio & Nano Technol, Microbial Biotechnol, Lab 202, Hisar 125001, Haryana, India								1							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000784061700001		
J	Shi, Rongjun; Han, Tingting; Huang, Honghui; Kuang, Zexing; Qi, Zhanhui								The Extent and Pattern of Mariculture Impacts on Spatial and Seasonal Variations of Sediment Bacterial Communities Among Three Coastal Waters								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				9						782456	10.3389/fmars.2022.782456			MAR 10 2022	2022	Benthic sediment bacteria are important drivers for material circulation and energy flow in aquatic ecosystem, and they are sensitive to environmental changes. Large scale suspended mariculture in coastal waters induces high organic loading to the sediment through biodeposition, and causes changes in sediment biogeochemical features. However, the impacts of mariculture on sediment bacterial communities are not fully understood. In the present study, sediment samples were collected from three coastal semi-enclosed bays of China, i.e., Sanggou Bay, Daya Bay, and Maniao Bay, where large scale mariculture were carried out since the 1980s. High-throughput sequencing was used to examine the spatial and seasonal variations of bacterial communities. The results indicated that the dominant phyla of three bays were Proteobacteria (39.18-47.21%), Bacteroidetes (9.91-19.25%), and Planctomycetes (7.12-13.88%). Spatial variations played a greater role in shaping the bacterial communities than seasonal variation. The bacterial diversity indices (Chao1, Pielou's evenness, and Shannon-Wiener index) of Sanggou Bay were significantly lower than those of Daya Bay and Maniao Bay. For seasonal variation, bacterial diversity indices in spring were significantly lower than that in autumn. Five keystone taxa belonging to Planctomycetes, Alphaproteobacteria, and Acidobacteria were identified in Sanggou Bay. Temperature, particulate organic carbon, pH, and salinity were the most important environmental factors shaping the spatial and seasonal variations of bacterial communities in the studied areas. The abundances of bacteria, particularly Bacteroidetes, Gammaproteobacteria, and Deltaproteobacteria, were significantly correlated with the mariculture-driven chemical properties of the sediment. These results indicated that intensive mariculture could induce profound and diverse impacts on the bacterial communities, and therefore modify their role in marine ecosystem. The interactions between mariculture and sediment bacterial communities should be considered in regard to mariculture management and carrying capacity.		[Shi, Rongjun; Han, Tingting; Huang, Honghui; Kuang, Zexing; Qi, Zhanhui] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Key Lab Open Sea Fishery Dev,Minist Agr, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Huang, Honghui] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Qi, Zhanhui] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Key Lab Open Sea Fishery Dev,Minist Agr, Guangzhou, Peoples R China								4							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000777316800001		
J	Stewart, Alyssa B.; Diller, Carolina; Dudash, Michele R.; Fenster, Charles B.								Pollination-precision hypothesis: support from native honey bees and nectar bats								NEW PHYTOLOGIST				235	4			1629	1640		10.1111/nph.18050			AUG 2022	2022	The evolution of floral traits is often considered to reflect selection for increased pollination efficiency. Known as the pollination-precision hypothesis, increased pollination efficiency is achieved by enhancing pollen deposition on precise areas of the pollinator. Most research to date addressing this hypothesis has examined plant species that are a priori predicted to place pollen precisely, but we still lack comparisons with species predicted to have low pollination efficiency. We studied 39 plant species with diverse floral morphologies and measured the precision of pollen placement on two pollinator groups: honey bees (genus Apis) and nectar bats (family Pteropodidae). Pollen was collected from four locations of each pollinator's body (bees: dorsal thorax, ventral thorax, dorsal abdomen, ventral abdomen; bats: crown, face, chest, wing) to calculate pollen placement precision using Pielou's evenness index. We also quantified variation in floral design by scoring floral symmetry, corolla fusion, floral orientation and stamen number. We confirm the importance of four floral character states (bilateral symmetry, fused corollas, horizontal orientation and reduced stamen number) in promoting precise pollen placement on diverse pollinators. Our findings provide phylogenetically corrected, empirical support that the evolution of the four floral characters reflect selection for enhanced precision of pollen placed on pollinators.		[Stewart, Alyssa B.] Mahidol Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Plant Sci, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; [Diller, Carolina] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Plant Protect Biol, S-23456 Alnarp, Sweden; [Dudash, Michele R.] South Dakota State Univ, Dept Nat Resource Management, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Dudash, Michele R.] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Fenster, Charles B.] South Dakota State Univ, Oak Lake Field Stn, Brookings, SD 57007 USA; [Stewart, Alyssa B.] Mahidol Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Plant Sci, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; [Diller, Carolina] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Plant Protect Biol, S-23456 Alnarp, Sweden								14							Plant Sciences	WOS:000765415200001		
J	Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Calixto, Eduardo Soares; Alkahtani, Jawaher; Alwahibi, Mona S.; Ali, Niaz; Kausar, Rukhsana; Khan, Uzma; Bussmann, Rainer W.								Typology of Pure Deodar Forests Driven by Vegetation-Environment Relations in Manoor Valley, Northwestern Himalaya								APPLIED SCIENCES-BASEL				12	5					2753	10.3390/app12052753			MAR 2022	2022	The current research was carried out to characterize the phytosociology of the forests of one of Pakistan's most valuable tree species (Deodar) across its native range. In this context, our main hypothesis was that, along the altitudinal gradient, we would find different plant communities that would be driven by different environmental variables (climatic, edaphic, and physiographic). Therefore, to assess the vegetation structure of the pure Deodar forests of the unexplored Manoor Valley (Northwestern Himalaya), Pakistan, frequent field visits were carried out during different seasons of 2015-2018. Ecological methods: Line transects sampling (23 stands) and phytosociological attributes were evaluated in relation to geographical and environmental variables. Various statistical software applications (i.e., PCORD, RStudio 4.0, and R 3.6.1) were used to examine all of the gathered data of plant species and environmental variables. A total of three different plant communities (Cedrus-Isodon-Cynodon, Cedrus-Cynodon-Dryopteris, and Sambucus-Cedrus-Desmodium) were identified by grouping 162 species and 23 stands in pure Deodar forests under the influence of geographic, slope, edaphic, and climatic variables, ranging from 1580.8 to 2373.8 m. The altitude (1936-2373 m), slope angle (25-85 degrees), sandy (29-48%) and loamy soil texture, wind speed (1.45 ms(-1)), and temperature (25.8 degrees C) all had a strong influence on the Sambucus-Cedrus-Desmodium community. In contrast with this, the Cedrus-Cynodon-Dryopteris community showed a positively significant relationship with the northeastern slope, silty (32-58%) and sandy (15.8-55%) loamy soil texture, and barometric pressure (814.3 pa). Nonetheless, the Cedrus-Isodon-Cynodon community revealed a significant positive association with the northeastern to southwestern slope, pH (6.3), wet bulb (19.7), and dew point (17.7). We found significant differences (p < 0.001) among the three communities found in the pure Deodar forests in the four diversity indexes. The Sambucus-Cedrus-Desmodium community has the maximum number of plants (129 species), Shannon's diversity (H' = 3.7), and Simpson's dominance (0.98) values among the recorded communities. The Pielou's evenness index value was led by the Cedrus-Isodon-Cynodon community (0.97). Beta diversity showed a dissimilarity lower than 50% among the three communities. Simple term effects in the canonical correspondence analysis model revealed significant (p < 0.05) differences in altitude, slope angle, slope (southeastern), and wind speed variables. The present investigation sheds light on vegetation pattern and species contribution as a function of environmental gradients and provides a baseline for future studies.		[Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Ali, Niaz; Khan, Uzma] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Missouri Bot Garden, William L Brown Ctr, 4344 Shaw Blvd, St Louis, MO USA; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] Univ Missouri, Dept Biol Sci, St Louis, MO USA; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] Univ Florida, Entomol & Nematol Dept, Gainesville, FL USA; [Alkahtani, Jawaher; Alwahibi, Mona S.] King Saud Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Bot & Microbiol, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; [Kausar, Rukhsana] Int Islamic Univ, Dept Environm Sci, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Bussmann, Rainer W.] Ilia State Univ, Inst Bot, Dept Ethnobot, 1 Bot St, Tbilisi, Georgia; [Ali, Niaz] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra, Pakistan								1							Chemistry, Multidisciplinary; Engineering, Multidisciplinary; Materials Science, Multidisciplinary; Physics, Applied	WOS:000773246700001		
J	Zhan, Jinyu; Zheng, Yufeng; Xia, Qing; Wang, Jin; Liu, Sibo; Yang, Zhaofu								Diversity investigation by application of DNA barcoding: A case study of lepidopteran insects in Xinjiang wild fruit forests, China								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				12	3					e8678	10.1002/ece3.8678			MAR 2022	2022	To investigate the species diversity of lepidopteran insects in Xinjiang wild fruit forests, establish insect community monitoring systems, and determine the local species pool, we test the applicability of DNA barcoding based on cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) gene for accurate and rapid identification of insect species. From 2017 to 2019, a total of 212 samples with ambiguous morphological identification were selected for DNA barcoding analysis. Five sequence-based methods for species delimitation (ABGD, BINs, GMYC, jMOTU, and bPTP) were conducted for comparison to traditional morphology-based identification. In total, 2,422 samples were recorded, representing 143 species of 110 genera in 17 families in Lepidoptera. The diversity analysis showed that the richness indices for Noctuidae was the highest (54 species), and for Pterophoridae, Cossidae, Limacodidae, Lasiocampidae, Pieridae, and Lycaenidae were the lowest (all with 1 species). The Shannon-Wiener species diversity index (H ') and Pielou's evenness (J ') of lepidopteran insects first increased and then decreased across these 3 years, while the Simpson diversity index showed a trend of subtracted then added. For molecular-based identification, 67 lepidopteran species within 61 genera in 14 families were identified through DNA barcoding. Neighbor-joining (NJ) analysis showed that conspecific individuals were clustered together and formed monophyletic groups with a high support value, except for Lacanobia contigua (Denis & Schiffermuller, 1775) (Noctuidae: Hadeninae). Sixty-seven morphospecies were classified into various numbers of MOTUs based on ABGD, BINs, GMYC, jMOTU, and bPTP (70, 96, 2, 71, and 71, respectively). In Xinjiang wild fruit forests, the family with the largest number of species is Noctuidae, followed by Geometridae, Crambidae, and the remaining families. The highest Shannon diversity index is observed for the family Noctuidae. Our results indicate that the distance-based methods (ABGD and jMOTU) and character-based method (bPTP) outperform GMYC. BINs is inclined to overestimate species diversity compared to other methods.		[Zhan, Jinyu; Zheng, Yufeng; Xia, Qing; Wang, Jin; Liu, Sibo; Yang, Zhaofu] Northwest A&F Univ, Key Lab Plant Protect Resources & Pest Management, Minist Educ, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhan, Jinyu; Zheng, Yufeng; Xia, Qing; Wang, Jin; Liu, Sibo; Yang, Zhaofu] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Entomol Museum, Yangling, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Yang, Zhaofu] Northwest A&F Univ, Key Lab Plant Protect Resources & Pest Management, Minist Educ, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000774810600001		
J	Ah-Shee-Tee, L.; Puchooa, D.; Appadoo, C.; Bhoyroo, V.; Kerovec, Darko								Occurrence and distribution of opisthobranch sea slugs in environment-impacted areas of Mauritius								REGIONAL STUDIES IN MARINE SCIENCE				52						102249	10.1016/j.rsma.2022.102249			MAY 2022	2022	The opisthobranch are a diverse group of sea slugs sensitive to anthropogenic pollution. Considering the plans of Mauritius to expand the harbour, the present study investigated the distribution of opisthobranch in area of close proximity. A total of three survey areas (Bain des Dames, Riviere Noire and Le Morne) were monitored over a period of fifteen months (August 2019 to December 2020) using belt transects of 50 m x 5 m. Environmental variables such as nutrients (nitrate, sulphate, phosphate, organic matter, organic carbon) and heavy metals (chromium Cr-53, iron Fe-57, cadmium Cd-111 and Cd-114, tin Sn-119, mercury Hg-202 and lead Pb-208) were measured. A total of 1367 opisthobranch belonging to 76 species and 20 families were recorded, with 13 novel records. Species richness was higher at Bain des Dames (H' = 3.22) and Pielou's evenness index fluctuated from December 2019 to June 2020 and in December 2020 at Le Morne. PERMANOVA analysis showed species composition depends on survey location, period and its complex interaction (p < 0.05). Most records were made during the breeding/spawning season (summer). The SIMPER analysis showed the Cephalaspideans were the dominant species explaining the dissimilarity between Bain des Dames and Riviere Noire (40.63%). Their observations possibly relate to feeding purposes since they feed on polychaete which inhabit fine grain and organic rich areas. The sacoglossans explained the dissimilarity between Bain des Dames and Le Morne (38.73%) and Riviere Noire (44.95%). Their abundance relate to their abundant food source. The three locations differed from each other, with concentration of environmental variables higher at Bain des Dames. The BIO-ENV matching analysis showed organic matter, organic carbon and depth (R = 0.328, p < 0.05) best explained the pattern in biotic assemblage. The findings show pollution is not affecting the population of opisthobranch. Their tolerance to nutrient enrichment suggest their valuable use as biological indicators. (c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Ah-Shee-Tee, L.; Puchooa, D.; Bhoyroo, V.] Univ Mauritius, Dept Agr & Food Sci, Fac Agr, Reduit, Mauritius; [Appadoo, C.] Univ Mauritius, Dept Biosciences Ocean Studies, Fac Sci, Reduit, Mauritius; [Kerovec, Darko] Josip Juraj Strossmayer Univ Osijek, Fac Agrobiotechn Sci Osijek, Cent Lab Agroecol & Environm, Osijek, Croatia; [Ah-Shee-Tee, L.] Univ Mauritius, Dept Agr & Food Sci, Fac Agr, Reduit, Mauritius								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000776123700011		
J	Zhang, Xinzhuan; Hu, Zhongjun; Pan, Huahua; Bai, Yijun; Hu, Ying; Jin, Shulan								Effects of rare earth elements on bacteria in rhizosphere, root, phyllosphere and leaf of soil-rice ecosystem								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				12	1					2089	10.1038/s41598-022-06003-2			FEB 8 2022	2022	The effects of rare earth mining on rice biomass, rare earth element (REE) content and bacterial community structure was studied through pot experiment. The research shows that the REE content in rice roots, shoots and grains was significantly positive correlated with that in soil, and the dry weight of rice roots, shoots and grains was highly correlated with soil physical and chemical properties, nutrient elements and REE contents; The exploitation of rare earth minerals inhibited a-diversity of endophytic bacteria in rhizosphere, root, phyllosphere and leaf of rice, significantly reduced the abundance index, OTU number, Chao, Ace index and also significantly reduced the diversity index-Shannon index, and also reduced uniformity index: Pielou's evenness index, which caused beta-diversity of bacteria to be quite different. The exploitation of rare earth minerals reduces the diversity of bacteria, but forms dominant bacteria, such as Burkholderia, Bacillus, Buttiauxella, Acinetobacter, Bradyrhizobium, Candida koribacter, which can degrade the pollutants formed by exploitation of rare earth minerals, alleviate the compound pollution of rare earth and ammonia nitrogen, and also has the function of fixing nitrogen and resisting rare earth stress; The content of soil available phosphorus in no-mining area is lower, and the dominant bacteria of Pantoea formed in such soil, which has the function of improving soil phosphorus availability. Rare earth elements and physical and chemical properties of soil affect the community structure of bacteria in rhizosphere and phyllosphere of rice, promote the parallel movement of some bacteria in rhizosphere, root, phyllosphere and leaf of rice, promote the construction of community structure of bacteria in rhizosphere and phyllosphere of rice, give full play to the growth promoting function of Endophytes, and promote the growth of rice. The results showed that the exploitation of rare earth minerals has formed the dominant endophytic bacteria of rice and ensured the yield of rice in the mining area, however, the mining of mineral resources causes the compound pollution of rare earth and ammonia nitrogen, which makes REE content of rice in mining area significantly higher than that in non-mining area, and the excessive rare earth element may enter the human body through the food chain and affect human health, so the food security in the REE mining area deserves more attention.		[Zhang, Xinzhuan; Hu, Zhongjun; Pan, Huahua; Bai, Yijun; Jin, Shulan] Shangrao Normal Univ, 401 Zhimin Rd, Shangrao 334000, Peoples R China; [Hu, Ying] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, 18 Shuangqing Rd, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Jin, Shulan] Shangrao Normal Univ, 401 Zhimin Rd, Shangrao 334000, Peoples R China								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000756832600027		
J	Shukla, Vibhasa; Rao, Kottapalli Sreenivasa; Tripathi, Deepika								Pollen diversity of honey from northern and southern Prayagraj district Uttar Pradesh, India								GRANA				61	2			148	160		10.1080/00173134.2021.1993329			MAR 4 2022	2022	Comparative pollen diversity of honey collected from northern and southern regions of Prayagraj district of Uttar Pradesh India during different honey flow periods were investigated in the present study. A total of 67 pollen types belonging to 32 plant families were recovered from 24 honey samples collected from different sampling points from the northern and the southern regions of Prayagraj district. While Brassica campestris, Dalbergia sissoo, Eucalyptus sp., Helianthus annuus, Peltophorum pterocarpum and Sesamum indicum were recorded as predominant pollen types in unifloral honey samples collected from the northern region; Ageratum conyzoides and Parthenium hysterophorus were recorded in honey samples from the southern region. Based on the findings of the present study we found identified pollen types belong to the native species as well as cultivated species (agricultural crops and trees) of Prayagraj district. This information may help the beekeeper to conserve plant resources for honey production. The pollen type diversity per honey sample from the southern region of Prayagraj district was richer as compared to the northern region. Shannon-Weaver Diversity Index and Pielou's Evenness Index for pollen in the honey samples ranged from 1.41 to 2.56 and 0.62 to 0.88, respectively, indicating high plant heterogeneity foraged by the honeybees.		[Shukla, Vibhasa; Rao, Kottapalli Sreenivasa] Univ Delhi, Dept Bot, Delhi 110007, India; [Tripathi, Deepika] Birbal Sahni Inst Palaeosci, Quaternary Palynol & Palaeoethnobot Lab, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Shukla, Vibhasa] Univ Delhi, Dept Bot, Delhi 110007, India								2							Plant Sciences	WOS:000749372700001		
J	Divakara, Baragur Neelappa; Nikitha, Chitradurga Umesh; Noelke, Nils; Tewari, Vindhya Prasad; Kleinn, Christoph								Tree Diversity and Tree Community Composition in Northern Part of Megacity Bengaluru, India								SUSTAINABILITY				14	3					1295	10.3390/su14031295			FEB 2022	2022	Trees are natural capital assets, especially for cities, as they provide immense environmental benefits and improve urban biodiversity and ecology. However, urbanization has largely destroyed the original native ecosystems and has caused a homogenization where frequently native species are replaced by non-native species. When attempting to understand the role of trees in urban settings, it is important to generate science-based data on the spatial distribution of trees, their species composition and tree species diversity as a function of the degree of urbanization. Such information may specifically inform the planning of effective long-term management of trees across urban and rural gradients. A total of 23 of 1 ha each were surveyed along a Northern research transect laid out along the urban-rural gradient of the metropolitan area of Bengaluru, India. Plots were randomly selected from the stratum "settlement areas", where WorldView-3 imagery supported both stratification and plot selection. The plots were fully mapped for trees, where a total of eleven variables had been observed for each tree. In addition, the basal area and wood volume was calculated to understand the biomass potential of the trees in the plots. The diversity indices such as the Shannon index, Simpson index, Pielou's evenness and Margalef's richness were considered for comparing the species diversity, composition and distribution along the gradient of Bengaluru. A total of 1128 individuals of 93 tree species were recorded. Among 92 species identified along the northern gradient, 53 are exotic, and 39 are native species. The Shannon-Wiener index varied from 1.33 to 2.72; Simpson's index varied from 0.65 to 0.90; Pielou's index varied from 0.66 to 0.90, and Margalef's index ranged from 1.41 to 5.20 along the gradient. The basal area increased from 96.39 m(2) to 102.76 m(2) from 2017 to 2019 along the transect, with a net gain of 6.37 m(2). Similarly, the wood volume increased from 1819.57 m(3) to 1926.23 m(3) with a net gain of 106.66 m(3). The present study reports on tree distribution, species composition and tree species diversity along a gradient from the city center to the rural surroundings of northern parts of Bengaluru city. The information generated may support the city planners/administrators by providing a holistic understanding of the species composition and abundance for a further selection of adaptive species and appropriate tree and vegetation management practices to conserve the existing green spaces and contribute towards sustainable urban planning. The sample plots laid out may also serve as permanent observation plots for monitoring the dynamics of tree cover in the city.		[Divakara, Baragur Neelappa; Nikitha, Chitradurga Umesh; Tewari, Vindhya Prasad] Inst Wood Sci & Technol, Bengaluru 560003, Karnataka, India; [Noelke, Nils; Kleinn, Christoph] Georg August Univ, Forest Inventory & Remote Sensing, D-37073 Gottingen, Germany; [Divakara, Baragur Neelappa] Inst Wood Sci & Technol, Bengaluru 560003, Karnataka, India								9							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000754833200001		
J	Das, Mautushi; Semy, Khikeya; Kuotsu, Keviphruonuo								Seasonal monitoring of algal diversity and spatiotemporal variation in water properties of Simsang river at South Garo Hills, Meghalaya, India								SUSTAINABLE WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT				8	1					16	10.1007/s40899-022-00611-6			FEB 2022	2022	The present study was carried out in the Simsang river of Garo Hills, Meghalaya, NE India to estimate the seasonal water properties and examine the algal distribution from three sampling stations. The water parameters were estimated following Trivedy and Goel (Environ Publ 6:10-12, 1986) and APHA (American Public Health Association, Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, Method, 2005), while biodiversity indices were used to calculate the algal diversity, richness, evenness and similarity index. The result revealed that pH and the concentrations of Fe, Ni, Mn, and Zn were found to be significantly elevated as compared to BIS/WHO recommended level for drinking water. A total of 29 algal species belonging to 12 families were enumerated from the 4 seasons. Biodiversity indices such as Margalef richness index, Shannon-Weiner index, and Simpson's diversity presented maximum values in summer while Pielou's evenness did not vary significantly between seasons. Sorenson's index presented the lowest similarity (25%) and highest dissimilarity (75%) between winter and spring. The water quality status revealed that Simsang river water is deteriorated and needs to be pre-treated before utilization. Furthermore, the river condition as observed during the study period felt the necessity to adopt proper management policy and conservation efforts by the local inhabitants to protect the Simsang river.		[Das, Mautushi] Univ Sci & Technol Meghalaya, Dept Bot, Ri Bhoi 793101, India; [Semy, Khikeya; Kuotsu, Keviphruonuo] Nagaland Univ, Ctr Biodivers, Dept Bot, Lumami 798627, India; [Semy, Khikeya] Nagaland Univ, Ctr Biodivers, Dept Bot, Lumami 798627, India								2							Water Resources	WOS:000743529600002		
J	Macedo, Henrique Tobaro; Rentas, Mariana Fragoso; Vendramini, Thiago Henrique Annibale; Macegoza, Matheus Vinicius; Amaral, Andressa Rodrigues; Jeremias, Juliana Toloi; de Carvalho Balieiro, Julio Cesar; Pfrimer, Karina; Ferriolli, Eduardo; Pontieri, Cristiana Ferreira Fonseca; Brunetto, Marcio Antonio								Weight-loss in obese dogs promotes important shifts in fecal microbiota profile to the extent of resembling microbiota of lean dogs								ANIMAL MICROBIOME				4	1					6	10.1186/s42523-021-00160-x			JAN 6 2022	2022	Background Among the undesirable changes associated with obesity, one possibility recently raised is dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota. Studies have shown changes in microbiota in obese rats and humans, but there are still few studies that characterize and compare the fecal microbiota of lean, obese and dogs after weight loss. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of a weight loss program (WLP) in fecal microbiota of dogs in addition to comparing them with those of lean dogs. Twenty female dogs of different breeds, aged between 1 and 9 years were selected. They were equally divided into two groups: Obese group (OG), with body condition score (BCS) 8 or 9/9, and body fat percentage greater than 30%, determined by the deuterium isotope dilution method, and lean group (LG) with BCS 5/9, and maximum body fat of 15%. Weight loss group (WLG) was composed by OG after loss of 20% of their current body weight. Fecal samples were collected from the three experimental groups. Total DNA was extracted from the feces and these were sequenced by the Illumina methodology. The observed abundances were evaluated using a generalized linear model, considering binomial distribution and using the logit link function in SAS (p < 0.05). Results The WLP modulated the microorganisms of the gastrointestinal tract, so that, WLG and LG had microbial composition with greater biodiversity than OG, and intestinal uniformity of the microbiota (Pielou's evenness index) was higher in OG than WLG dogs (P = 0.0493) and LG (P = 0.0101). In addition, WLG had values of relative frequency more similar to LG than to OG. Conclusion The fecal microbiota of the studied groups differs from each other. The weight loss program can help to reverse the changes observed in obese dogs.		[Macedo, Henrique Tobaro; Rentas, Mariana Fragoso; Vendramini, Thiago Henrique Annibale; Macegoza, Matheus Vinicius; Amaral, Andressa Rodrigues; de Carvalho Balieiro, Julio Cesar; Brunetto, Marcio Antonio] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Vet Med & Anim Sci FMVZ, Pet Nutrol Res Ctr CEPEN Pet, Dept Anim Nutr & Prod, Duque Caxias Norte Ave 255, BR-13635900 Pirassununga, SP, Brazil; [Jeremias, Juliana Toloi; Pontieri, Cristiana Ferreira Fonseca] Grandfood Ind & Comercio LTDA Premier Pet, Nutr Dev Ctr CDN, Km 204, BR-13590000 Dourado, SP, Brazil; [Pfrimer, Karina; Ferriolli, Eduardo] Univ Sao Paulo, Med Sch Ribeirao Preto FMRP, Bandeirantes Ave 3900,Campus USP, BR-14049900 Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil; [Brunetto, Marcio Antonio] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Vet Med & Anim Sci FMVZ, Pet Nutrol Res Ctr CEPEN Pet, Dept Anim Nutr & Prod, Duque Caxias Norte Ave 255, BR-13635900 Pirassununga, SP, Brazil								6							Microbiology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000739951100002		
J	Cascione, Daniela; Turco, Cristina; Amodio, Simona; Ingrosso, Maurizio; Cipriano, Giulia; Carlucci, Roberto; Maiorano, Porzia; Ricci, Pasquale			IEEE					Observations on benthic assemblages impacted by hydraulic dredges in the Southern Adriatic Sea (Central Mediterranean Sea)								2022 IEEE INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ON METROLOGY FOR THE SEA LEARNING TO MEASURE SEA HEALTH PARAMETERS (METROSEA)								252	256		10.1109/METROSEA55331.2022.9950864			2022	2022	The structure of benthic assemblages impacted by hydraulic dredges in Margherita, Barletta, Lesina, and Varano areas (Southern Adriatic Sea) have been explored through a multivariate analysis conducted on abundance data (N/100 m(2)) collected during two summer surveys, in 2018 and 2019. Overall, 134 hauls were performed and approximately equally split over the two years. The differences in the benthic assemblages composition were investigated both between the areas and within each area between the two years. The similarity in the species composition among the areas in each year was investigated by means Sorensen-Dice similarity coefficient. Several multivariate techniques (Principal COordinate analysis - PCO and SIMPER) were carried out to explore the benthic assemblages. Finally, diversity indices (Shannon- Weiner's and Pielou's evenness) were calculated for each haul and Tukey's range test was performed. The highest Sorensen-Dice similarity values were found between Margherita and Barletta in 2018 and between Lesina and Varano in 2019. Clear differences between Lesina and Varano with respect to the Barletta and Margherita areas, were highlighted through the PCO analysis within each year. This could be due to the geographical isolation of these areas' pairs from each other. Changes in the benthic assemblages' structure were detected through PCO analysis for Lesina and Margherita, where species more or less sensitive to disturbance changed in abundance between 2018 and 2019. Differently, benthic assemblages in Barletta and Varano did not show clear temporal differences. Diversity in investigated benthic assemblages did not show significant temporal differences. This condition could be due to several anthropogenic stressors (harbors, urban structures) moderately impacting during the year, which could support a stable condition of intermediate disturbance on the benthic assemblages. Further studies should be carried out to establish whether these changes in benthic assemblages are mainly driven by environmental or anthropogenic impacts.		[Cascione, Daniela; Turco, Cristina; Amodio, Simona; Maiorano, Porzia] Univ Bari, Dept Biol, CoNISMa, Bari, Italy; [Ingrosso, Maurizio; Cipriano, Giulia; Carlucci, Roberto; Ricci, Pasquale] Univ Bari, Dept Biol, Bari, Italy; [Cascione, Daniela] Univ Bari, Dept Biol, CoNISMa, Bari, Italy				IEEE International Workshop on Metrology for the Sea Learning to Measure Sea Health Parameters (MetroSea)	OCT 03-05, 2022	IEEE; Univ Messina	Milazzo, ITALY	3							Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000894276700049		
J	Amamoto, R.; Shimamoto, K.; Suwa, T.; Park, S.; Matsumoto, H.; Shimizu, K.; Katto, M.; Makino, H.; Matsubara, S.; Aoyagi, Y.								Relationships between dietary diversity and gut microbial diversity in the elderly								BENEFICIAL MICROBES				13	6			453	464		10.3920/BM2022.0054			2022	2022	Diet is considered as a major driver of gut microbiota composition. However, little is known about the relationship between overall dietary balance and gut microbiota, especially in the elderly. Here, using the Quantitative Index for Dietary Diversity (QUANTIDD), we analysed the relationships between dietary diversity and gut microbiota diversity in 445 Japanese subjects aged 65-90 years. We also examined the effect of age by comparing the young-old group aged 65 to 74 years (<75 years group; n=246) and the old-old group aged 75 years and older (>= 75 years group; n=199). QUANTIDD showed significant positive relationships with Pielou's evenness and Shannon indices, two a-diversity indices related to the uniformity of species distribution. This suggests that a more diverse diet is associated with a more uniform abundance of various bacterial groups, rather than a greater variety of gut bacteria. QUANTIDD also showed significant positive associations with the abundance of Anaerostipes, Eubacterium eligens group, and Eubacterium ventriosum group, which produce short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and are beneficial to health. Negative association was found with the abundance of Ruminococcus gnavus group, which produces inflammatory polysaccharides. Positive associations between QUANTIDD and a-diversity indices or the abundance of specific bacterial groups were identified among all subjects and in the <75 years group, but not in the >= 75 years group. Our results suggest that dietary diversity contributes to the diversity of the gut microbiota and increases the abundance of SCFAs-producing bacteria, but only up to a certain age. These findings help to understand the complex relationship between diet and gut microbiota, and provide hints for specific dietary interventions to promote beneficial gut microbiota in the elderly.		[Amamoto, R.; Shimamoto, K.; Suwa, T.; Makino, H.; Matsubara, S.] Yakult Cent Inst, Food Res Dept, 5-11 Izumi,Kunitachi Shi, Tokyo 1868650, Japan; [Park, S.; Aoyagi, Y.] Tokyo Metropolitan Inst Gerontol, Exercise Sci Res Grp, 35-2 Sakaecho,Itabashi Ku, Tokyo 1730015, Japan; [Matsumoto, H.] Yakult Cent Inst, Dept Microbiol Res, 5-11 Izumi,Kunitachi Shi, Tokyo 1868650, Japan; [Shimizu, K.; Katto, M.] Yakult Cent Inst, Basic Res Dept, 5-11 Izumi,Kunitachi Shi, Tokyo 1868650, Japan; [Aoyagi, Y.] Tokyo Metropolitan Inst Gerontol, Exercise Sci Res Grp, 35-2 Sakaecho,Itabashi Ku, Tokyo 1730015, Japan								4							Microbiology; Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000893170100004		
J	Dey, Rikee; Ghosh, Amit K.; Roy, Lopamudra; Chakraborty, Arindam; Bhaumik, Ajoy Kumar; Saxena, Stuti								Burdigalian-Serravallian (Miocene) radiolarians from Havelock Island, Northeast Indian Ocean and their paleoecological significance								MICROPALEONTOLOGY				68	4			345	374		10.47894/mpal.68.4.01			2022	2022	A detailed study on radiolarian biostratigraphy and paleoecology has been carried out from three outcrops on Havelock Island, belonging to the Ritchie???s Archipelago of Andaman and Nicobar Group of islands. Though most of the radiolarian taxa are moder-ately preserved, it was possible to demarcate an age ranging from late early to early middle Miocene based on index radiolarians of RN4 and RN5 zones. An attempt has been made to correlate the radiolarian events recorded herein with earlier reports on radiolarians from dif-ferent DSDP, ODP, and IODP sites of the Indian Ocean and the onshore sections of different islands of the Andaman and Nicobar Basin. A total of 119 radiolarian taxa belonging to 70 genera have been recorded in the present study, out of which 4 species are being reported for the first time from the northeastern part of the Indian Ocean. Diversity analyses were performed to deduce the Shannon Diversity Index, Simpson Index, Margalef Richness, and Pielou???s Evenness. The Water Depth Ecology index (WADE) has been analyzed for a better un-derstanding of the paleoecological perspectives, and the Nassellaria-Spumellaria ratio of each outcrop has been calculated to ascertain the water depth. Comparison of the data obtained from diversity analysis and WADE index provides a clear picture of the environment during the late early to early middle Miocene. The overwhelming dominance of warm species of radiolarians may be linked to the Mio-cene Climate Optimum (MCO) event.		[Dey, Rikee; Ghosh, Amit K.; Roy, Lopamudra; Chakraborty, Arindam; Saxena, Stuti] Birbal Sahni Inst Palaeosci, 53 Univ Rd, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Dey, Rikee; Bhaumik, Ajoy Kumar] Indian Inst Technol, Indian Sch Mines, Dept Appl Geol, Dhanbad 826004, Jharkhand, India; [Ghosh, Amit K.] Birbal Sahni Inst Palaeosci, 53 Univ Rd, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India								1							Paleontology	WOS:000825156500001		
J	Kamal, Md Abu Hena Mostofa; Abu Kawsar, Md.; Pandit, Debasish; Kunda, Mrityunjoy; Tabassum, Khushnud; Alam, Md. Tariqul								Fish Biodiversity at Kawadighi <i>Haor</i> of Northeastern Bangladesh: Addressing Fish Diversity, Production and Conservation Status								AQUATIC SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING				37	3			151	160		10.26650/ASE202221065255			2022	2022	This research was conducted to explore the status of fish species diversity and production in the Kawadighi Haor of northeastern Bangladesh. Data were collected biweekly through direct catch assessment surveys, focus group discussions, and personal interviews using a questionnaire. A total of 87 fish and prawn species belonging 14 orders and 30 families were identified in the Haor, where 18% species were abundantly available, 20% were commonly available, 42% were moderately available and 20% were rarely available. Among the recorded species, Cypriniformes, having 34 species, had the most species, followed by Siluriformes (20), Anabantiformes (11), Ovalentaria (4), Synbranchiformes (4), Clupeiformes (3), Decapoda (3), Osteoglossiformes (2), Anguilliformes (1), Beloniformes (1), Cyprinodontiformes (1), Gobiiformes (1), Mugiliformes (1), and Tetraodontiformes (1). The values of Shannon-Weaver diversity (H), Margalef's richness (d), and Pielou's evenness (J) indices were 2.98, 7.72 and 0.67 in Hawagulaia, 2.97, 7.52 and 0.67 in Patasingra and 2.61, 7.30 and 0.59 in Salkatua beel, respectively. The haor's average yearly fish production was 704.09 kg/ha. Small indigenous species (SIS) of fish dominated the haor's total production, accounting for 51.8 to 70.57 percent of the total contribution. The highest portion of fish produced in the non-stocked beel was SIS of fish but per hectare SIS of fish production of non-stocked beel was lower than the fingerling stocked beels. Aquaculture might have a good effect on fish production and biodiversity. The findings showed that Kawadighi Haor is a very productive and biodiversity-rich inland open waterbody that may function as a mother fishery. For the protection of current fisheries resources, multiple approaches including public awareness campaigns might be beneficial.		[Kamal, Md Abu Hena Mostofa; Abu Kawsar, Md.; Tabassum, Khushnud; Alam, Md. Tariqul] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Sylhet, Bangladesh; [Pandit, Debasish; Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet, Bangladesh; [Alam, Md. Tariqul] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Sylhet, Bangladesh								4							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000825204100005		
J	Correa Bruno, Cyntia Goulart; Goncalves, Regina Celia; dos Santos, Ademir; Facure, Katia Gomes; Corbi, Juliano Jose; Jacobucci, Giuliano Buza								The relationship between sediment metal concentration and Odonata (Insecta) larvae assemblage structure in Cerrado streams								LIMNETICA				41	1			27	41		10.23818/limn.41.03			2022	2022	Metals can be incorporated into stream sediment affecting benthic invertebrate assemblages in different ways. Odonata larvae have variable tolerances to metals; sublethal levels accumulated in larval tissue can indirectly influence assemblage structure in environments with differences in types and concentrations of metals in the sediment. This research evaluated the relationship between Odonata larvae assemblages and sediment metal content in Cerrado streams. We evaluated genus composition, abundance, richness, Shannon-Wiener (H') diversity index and Pielou's evenness index (J') of the assemblages from 12 streams. Cluster analysis was used to identify groups of streams according to sediment concentrations of Cu (copper), Zn (zinc), Ni (nickel), Fe (iron) and Mn (manganese). Canonical Redundancy Analysis (RDA) and Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) were performed to determine how metals influence Odonata assemblage metrics. Cluster analysis revealed three distinct groups of streams according to metal concentration in the sediment. RDA showed a negative relation between Pielou evenness (J') and the concentration of Ni, Cu, Zn and Mn, while abundance, genus richness and Shannon-Wiener diversity were positively related with Fe. CCA indicated that some taxa showed an opposite relation with metal concentration, but others were more abundant in streams subjected to high metal concentrations. Although the increase in iron concentration in streams can lead to an increase in the abundance of Odonata larvae, high concentrations of coper, zinc and manganese can lead to a reduction in taxon evenness.		[Correa Bruno, Cyntia Goulart] Inst Estadual Florestas, BR-38400186 Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Goncalves, Regina Celia] Univ Fed Goias, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Evolucao, Inst Ciencias Biol, Av Esperanca,Campus Samambaia, BR-74690900 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [dos Santos, Ademir] Univ Estadual Paulista, Inst Quim, Dept Quim Analit, Rua Prof Francisco Degni, BR-14800900 Araraquara, SP, Brazil; [Facure, Katia Gomes] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Ciencias Exatas & Nat Pontal, Rua 20 1600, BR-38304402 Ituiutaba, MG, Brazil; [Corbi, Juliano Jose] Univ Sao Paulo, Escola Engn Sao Carlos, Av Trabalhador Sancarlense, BR-13566590 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Jacobucci, Giuliano Buza] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Biol, Rua Ceara, BR-38400902 Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Jacobucci, Giuliano Buza] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Biol, Rua Ceara, BR-38400902 Uberlandia, MG, Brazil								0							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000823988700003		
J	Hou, W. J.; Liu, M. H.; Ming, X. Y.; Liu, J. M.; Xu, L.; Cui, X. B.; Yu, H. Y.								DRIVING FACTORS OF PHYTOPLANKTON COMMUNITY AND ASSESSMENT OF THE WATER QUALITY IN A SMALL EUTROPHIC WUXING LAKE, NORTHEAST CHINA								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				20	1			711	725		10.15666/aeer/2001_711725			2022	2022	The community structure, spatiotemporal variation and influencing factors of phytoplankton accompanied with water quality in Wuxing Lake, northeast China were studied during spring, summer and autumn from summer 2019 to spring 2020. Our purpose was to reveal the driving factors influencing phytoplankton community, combined with water quality, discussing methods on improving water quality in the lake.112 species of phytoplankton including 8 phyla and 74 genera were identified. The phytoplankton community structure demonstrated obvious seasonal and spatial variation. 20 dominant species were selected during three seasons. Redundancy analysis (RDA) result showed that transparency (SD), total phosphorous (TP), chemical oxygen demand (CODCr), turbidity (Tur), dissolved oxygen (DO) and conductivity (EC) were main factors influencing the abundance of dominant species. Results of Shannon-Wiener index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J') indicating slight to light pollution in the lake. Considering the risk of deterioration of water quality is still a possibility, measures to improve SD may be effective to prevent Cyanophyta blooms in summer. Our findings will provide a reference for water quality protection and management in small eutrophic lakes similar to Lake.		[Hou, W. J.; Liu, M. H.; Ming, X. Y.; Liu, J. M.; Xu, L.; Yu, H. Y.] Northeast Forestry Univ, Coll Wildlife & Protected Area, Dept Ecol, Harbin 150040, Peoples R China; [Cui, X. B.] Heilongjiang Naolihe Natl Nat Reserve Adm, Shuangyashan 155100, Peoples R China; [Yu, H. Y.] Northeast Forestry Univ, Coll Wildlife & Protected Area, Dept Ecol, Harbin 150040, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000750437500043		
J	Li, Yuanjie; Chen, Zuozhi; Zhang, Jun								Fish Composition and Diversity of Four Coral Reefs in the South China Sea Based on Hand-Line Catch								JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING				10	1					38	10.3390/jmse10010038			JAN 2022	2022	To improve the overall understanding of the fish diversity and spatial patterns of major coral reefs in the South China Sea, fish assemblage composition, dominant species, biodiversity indices, and multivariate analysis of community structure were reported for four major coral reefs based on hand-line survey data in May and September 2018. A total of five orders, 21 families, 45 genera and 121 species of fish were recorded with Perciformes (78.5%) being the most diverse. The highest number (5) of dominant species was found near Chenhang Island while the lowest (2) number was detected at Zhubi Reef. The highest abundance index (7.21) occurred at Zhubi Reef, while the Shannon-Wiener diversity (4.80), Pielou's evenness (0.81), and Simpson's dominance (0.95) indexes were all highest at Qiliangyu Island. Based on cluster analysis and non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS), fish communities varied more spatially than seasonally. Our results led us to hypothesize that the habitat complexity and level of anthropogenic disturbance were the main factors affecting the composition of reef-dwelling fish on each coral reef. Topography was likely responsible for most variation in the spatial pattern of fish diversity.		[Li, Yuanjie; Chen, Zuozhi; Zhang, Jun] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzho, Guangzhou 511458, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanjie; Chen, Zuozhi; Zhang, Jun] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Fishery Resources Res Dept, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanjie; Chen, Zuozhi; Zhang, Jun] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab South China Sea Fishery Resources Exploit, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Li, Yuanjie; Chen, Zuozhi] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Coll Marine Sci, Shanghai 201306, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun] Southern Marine Sci & Engn Guangdong Lab Guangzho, Guangzhou 511458, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Fishery Resources Res Dept, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Jun] Minist Agr & Rural Affairs, Key Lab South China Sea Fishery Resources Exploit, Guangzhou 510300, Peoples R China								4							Engineering, Marine; Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000750577400001		
J	Velazquez-Heras, Jesus E.; Castillo-Gamez, Reyna A.; Monreal, Rogelio; Cuen-Romero, Francisco J.; Enriquez-Ocana, Luis F.; Buitron-Sanchez, Blanca E.								Paleoecology of a Lower Cretaceous (lower Albian) marine community of Cerro de Oro, central Sonora, Mexico								JOURNAL OF SOUTH AMERICAN EARTH SCIENCES				113						103667	10.1016/j.jsames.2021.103667			JAN 2022	2022	The Early Cretaceous time is characterized by regression and transgression events in the oceans, which impulsed the radiation processes of species. In particular, these oscillation events controlled the distribution of marine invertebrates because they generated geographical barriers and the geographical connection between the different ecological niches. These events promote speciation of which there is a limited record in the state of Sonora. This work is the first quantitative paleoecological study of Early Cretaceous marine invertebrate fauna from central Sonora. The Mural Limestone exposed at the El Caloso Hill, located in the Cerro de Oro area, comprises 28 invertebrate taxa belonging to several groups such as corals, bivalves and gastropods, cephalopods, and echinoderms. These paleocommunities are part of the Early Cretaceous Mexican Sea, which covered the southwestern United States and Mexico during regressive/transgressive events. To evaluate and compare the diversity and richness of these paleocommunities, paleoecological indexes like the Simpson Dominance and Evenness index, Shannon index, Menhinick Species Richness, Total Chao Richness, and Pielou's Evenness index have been applied. In addition, the distribution described for these paleocommunities was defined as a clumped type. The limestone textures described for these environments comprises wackestone, and floatstone, typical of a shallow lagoon environment with low energy. Finally, the dominant guilds were represented by epifaunal sessile suspension, infaunal sessile suspension, and semi-infaunal facultative vagile suspension feeders.		[Velazquez-Heras, Jesus E.; Castillo-Gamez, Reyna A.; Enriquez-Ocana, Luis F.] Univ Sonora, Dept Invest Cient & Tecnol, Luis Donaldo Colosio S-N, Hermosillo 83000, Sonora, Mexico; [Monreal, Rogelio; Cuen-Romero, Francisco J.] Univ Sonora, Dept Geol, Blvd Luis Encinas & Rosales, Hermosillo 83000, Sonora, Mexico; [Buitron-Sanchez, Blanca E.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Geol, Dept Paleontol, Mexico City 04510, Cdmx, Mexico; [Monreal, Rogelio; Cuen-Romero, Francisco J.] Univ Sonora, Dept Geol, Blvd Luis Encinas & Rosales, Hermosillo 83000, Sonora, Mexico								2							Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000734396000002		
J	Liu, Kun; Wang, Anke; Zhang, Sujiong; Zhu, Zhenxian; Bi, Yufang; Wang, Yukui; Du, Xuhua								Tree species diversity mapping using UAS-based digital aerial photogrammetry point clouds and multispectral imageries in a subtropical forest invaded by moso bamboo (<i>Phyllostachys edulis</i>)								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED EARTH OBSERVATION AND GEOINFORMATION				104						102587	10.1016/j.jag.2021.102587			DEC 15 2021	2021	Moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) tends to invade any surrounding forest areas due to its aggressive characteristics (fast growth and clonal reproduction), where it changes the species composition and canopy structure of the forests, and has negative effects on forest diversity and ecosystem functions. Unmanned aerial system (UAS)-based remote sensing has the capacity to provide high-resolution, continuous spatial data that can be used to detect forest invasion dynamics. In this study, UAS-based RGB and multispectral image data and digital aerial photogrammetric point cloud (PPC) were acquired and used to detect areas of bamboo invasion in a subtropical forest of Southern China. First, a point cloud segmentation (PCS) method was applied for individual tree detection (ITD) using photogrammetric point clouds (PPCs). A random forest (RF) classifier was used to perform tree species classification based on PPC metrics, vegetation indices, and texture metrics. Finally, based on the results of the ITD and tree species classification, alpha-diversity (i.e., the species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener (H'), Simpson (D), and Pielou's evenness index(J)) and the spatial variation in species composition along the altitude gradient (beta-diversity) in the invaded forests were assessed. Results demonstrated that PCS worked well for tree detection in invaded forests (F-1-score = 80.63%), and the overall accuracy of tree species classification was 75.69%, with a kappa accuracy of 73.76%. The forest diversity analysis showed that all alpha-diversity values were generally predicted well (R-2 = 0.84-0.91, RMSE = 0.05-0.84). The diversity showed a decreasing tendency with increasing bamboo invasion, and the predominantly broad-leaved invaded forests had higher diversity than the predominantly coniferous invaded forests. The human intervention had a significant impact on bamboo invasion. The ANOVA of the dispersion of the dissimilarities along the elevation gradient showed significant differences in abundance-weighted similarity among the altitude classes (ANOVA of the Bray-Curtis dissimilarity, F-4,F-40 = 6.453, P = 0.0004***; ANOVA of the Jaccard dissimilarity, F-4,F-40 = 5.20, P = 0.0017**). This study indicated the potential benefits of using UAS-based remote sensing data to identify tree species and predict forest diversity in bamboo-invaded forests. Our results suggested that tree species diversity can be directly estimated using individual tree detection results based on PPC data instead of modelling the relationship between field-measured indices and remote sensing data-derived metrics, and revealed the influence of human intervention on bamboo invasion.		[Liu, Kun; Wang, Anke; Bi, Yufang; Wang, Yukui; Du, Xuhua] State Forestry Adm, China Natl Bamboo Res Ctr, Key Lab Resources & Utilizat Bamboo, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China; [Liu, Kun] Minist Ecol & Environm Peoples Republ China MEE, Nanjing Inst Environm Sci, Nanjing 210042, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Sujiong] Dapanshan Insect Inst Zhejiang, Panan 322300, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Zhenxian] Monitoring Ctr Forest Resources Zhejiang Prov, Hangzhou 310020, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Du, Xuhua] State Forestry Adm, China Natl Bamboo Res Ctr, Key Lab Resources & Utilizat Bamboo, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China								7							Remote Sensing	WOS:000721849200003		
J	Miranda-Garcia, Maria; Munoz-Pedreros, Andres; Norambuena, Heraldo								Waterbird assemblages of inland wetlands in Chile: A meta-analysis								NATURE CONSERVATION-BULGARIA					45			41	61		10.3897/natureconservation.45.74062			DEC 8 2021	2021	Chile has a large number of wetlands that offer a wide variety of refuges and food to waterbird assemblages. This research hypothesises that these assemblages differ according to the structural characteristics of each type of inland wetland. The object is to identify the structure of these assemblages, evaluating their richness, alpha alpha diversity and some ecological characteristics, taxonomic structures and trophic guilds. We performed a meta-analysis by submitting pre-selected articles to multivariate reliability analysis. The selected articles were used to characterise the assemblages by alpha alpha diversity: species richness, Shannon-Wiener index, Pielou's Evenness Index, relative abundance and taxonomic distinctiveness Delta + and beta beta diversity: Bray-Curtis with analysis of similarity percentage. Diversity and evenness differed in the seven wetlands studied, among 12 to 45 species, Shannon-Wiener index H'= 0.08 to 0.94 bits and Pielou's Evenness Index J'= 0.06 to 0.71. Four wetlands were below and three above the expected value for taxonomic distinctiveness (Delta +) (73.2 units). Two clusters were identified using the beta diversity: one consisting of the High-Andean wetlands (Huasco and Negro Francisco); and the other of El Peral lagoon, the Cruces River wetlands complex and the Tranque San Rafael man-made wetland. The most remarkable dissimilarity was provided by three species (Cygnus melancoryphus, Phoenicoparrus jamesi and Phoenicoparrus andinus). Zoophagous species that eat invertebrates by the first choice are the dominant group, while in lagoon wetlands phytophages and omnivores are more evenly represented.		[Miranda-Garcia, Maria] Univ Catolica Temuco, Programa Magister Recursos Nat, Temuco, Chile; [Miranda-Garcia, Maria] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Recursos Nat & Vet, Med Vet, Temuco, Chile; [Munoz-Pedreros, Andres] Univ Catolica Temuco, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Nucleo Estudios Ambientales, Temuco, Chile; [Norambuena, Heraldo] Univ Santo Tomas, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Bahia Lomas, Concepcion, Chile; [Norambuena, Heraldo] Ctr Estudios Agr & Ambientales, Programa Biodiversidad & Manejo Vida Silvestre, Valdivia, Chile; [Munoz-Pedreros, Andres] Univ Catolica Temuco, Dept Ciencias Ambientales, Nucleo Estudios Ambientales, Temuco, Chile								2							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000743379600002		
J	Tikadar, Kishor Kumar; Kunda, Mrityunjoy; Mazumder, Sabuj Kanti								Diversity of fishery resources and catch efficiency of fishing gears in Gorai River, Bangladesh								HELIYON				7	12					e08478	10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e08478			DEC 2021	2021	Gorai River is one of the important rivers in Bangladesh for rich aquatic biodiversity. The river is originated from the Ganges-Padma River system, a trans-boundary river between India and Bangladesh. Once the river was rich in fish biodiversity, but due to man-made and natural causes the availability of fish reduced drastically. A comprehensive analysis of fish diversity indices, gear efficiency, catch composition and decline causes of fish diversity in Gorai River, Bangladesh was accomplished. The data were collected on monthly basis from January to December 2018 from three major fishing sites of the river. A total of 62 fish and 2 prawn species under 12 orders and 24 families were recorded. Cypriniformes was the leading order consisting 27% of the total catch. The mean values of Shannon-Weaver diversity (H'), Simpson's index (1-D), Margalef's richness (d) and Pielou's evenness (J') indices were recorded as, 1.478 +/- 0.495, 0.57 +/- 0.197, 15.115 +/- 4.435 and 0.481 +/- 0.152, respectively. At the similarity of 58.7%, two groups were attained in the cluster analysis and the Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (nMDS) showed 40% similarity among the three sites in twelve months based on the Bray-Curtis similarity matrix. The highest and lowest CPUE were recorded from seine net (5.2 +/- 1.72 kg gear(-1) haul(-1)) and hook & long lines (0.0135 +/- 0.0015 kg gear(-1) haul(-1)), respectively whereas, highest and lowest gear efficiency were recorded from lift net (0.321 +/- 0.036 kg gear(-1) person(-1 )hour(-1)) and fish trap (0.0005 +/- 0.0002 kg gear(-1 )person(-1) hour(-1)), respectively. Alternatively, the highest fish catch was recorded on April (21228 +/- 464.38 kg) and lowest on August (3855 +/- 138.21 kg). According to the fishermen fish biodiversity of the Gorai River declined day by day due to overexploitation, destructive fishing practice, pollution, construction of obstacles for fish movement, and natural causes like siltation. Proper implementation of fish acts and regulations, use of authorized fishing gear, community-based fisheries management, sanctuary establishment and management, stocking of fish fingerling, and raising public awareness can play a great role in enhancing and conserving fish biodiversity in the Gorai River of Bangladesh.		[Tikadar, Kishor Kumar] Khulna Agr Univ, Dept Fishery Resources Conservat & Management, Khulna 9100, Bangladesh; [Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh; [Mazumder, Sabuj Kanti] Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Agr Univ, Dept Genet & Fish Breeding, Gazipur 1706, Bangladesh; [Kunda, Mrityunjoy] Sylhet Agr Univ, Dept Aquat Resource Management, Sylhet 3100, Bangladesh								10							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000748925400024		
J	Kalivodova, Michaela; Sladkovicova, Veronika Hulejova; Raniak, Andrej; Kanka, Robert; Ziak, David								Communities of Small Terrestrial Mammals of Western Slovakia Wetlands within the Danube Basin								ACTA ZOOLOGICA BULGARICA				73	4			517	523					DEC 2021	2021	Wetlands are ecosystems that provide many essential functions in landscape. Despite their importance and many studies involving small mammals, there is not much comprehensive information about these organisms in moist reed biotopes in the studied area. The present study was carried out at two localities in the west of Slovakia in 2015-2017. Nine species (434 individuals) of small terrestrial mammals were detected at the studied localities: Apodemus flavicollis, A. sylvaticus, Clethrionomys glareolus, Crocidura leucodon, Micromys minutus, Microtus arvalis, Mus spicilegus, Sorex araneus and S. minutus. Diversity and abundance, dominancy, sex ratio seasonal dynamics of the species were estimated and discussed. The most abundant were C. glareolus and S. araneus. Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness indices of the studied wetlands were relatively high (H=1.78, E=0.81). The study complements information about small mammal occurrence and population ecology in reed wetlands from other parts of Slovakia, creating a basis for further environmental studies. The results are compared with those from some Bulgarian wetlands belonging to the same river basin.		[Kalivodova, Michaela; Raniak, Andrej; Kanka, Robert] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Landscape Ecol, 3 Stefanikova St, Bratislava 81499, Slovakia; [Sladkovicova, Veronika Hulejova; Ziak, David] Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Zool, 6 Ilkovicova St, Bratislava 84215 4, Slovakia; [Raniak, Andrej] Constantine Philosopher Univ Nitra, Fac Nat Sci, Trieda A Hlinku 1, Nitra 94974, Slovakia; [Kalivodova, Michaela] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Landscape Ecol, 3 Stefanikova St, Bratislava 81499, Slovakia								0							Zoology	WOS:000743551200006		
J	Pinto, Ivo; Rodrigues, Sara; Antunes, Sara C.								Assessment of the Benthic Macroinvertebrate Communities in the Evaluation of the Water Quality of Portuguese Reservoirs: An Experimental Approach								WATER				13	23					3391	10.3390/w13233391			DEC 2021	2021	Reservoirs are dynamic ecosystems subject to different pressures that influence and compromise their ecological structure. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the potential of using the macroinvertebrate to assess the water quality of four reservoirs (one site in Miranda-M and Pocinho-P; four sites in Aguieira-Ag1 to Ag4; and five sites in Alqueva-Al1 to Al5). The sites were sampled in autumn 2018 (A18), spring and autumn 2019 (S19 and A19) and spring 2020 (S20). In situ physical and chemical parameters were measured and a sample of water and macroinvertebrate were collected for further analyses. Total phosphorus exceeded the allowed concentrations (maximum values recorded: M-0.13 mg/L, P-0.09 mg/L, Ag3-0.22 mg/L and Al5-0.18 mg/L). Total abundance varied between 4 and 3088. Taxonomic richness was always low, between 1 and 12 taxa. The highest Shannon-Wiener value (1.91) was recorded in Ag1_A18 and Al2_A18. Pielou's evenness varied widely across all reservoirs, from 0.06 to 0.92. Almost all the organisms found were associated with polluted water, according to the index ratings. Organisms tolerant of disturbances (e.g., Chironomidae and Oligochaeta) were associated with sites with the worst water quality, according to the Water Framework Directive (WFD), (M, Ag3, Ag4 and Al5) while organisms with moderate tolerance to disturbances (e.g., Cordullidae and Polycentropodidae) were associated with sites with better water quality (P, Ag1, Ag2 and Al1 to Al4). The macrozoobenthos index (MZB) used proved to be a sensitive tool to Portuguese reservoirs, corroborating most of the results obtained in the remaining analyses, as well as providing a clear ecological potential complementing the analysis carried out by the WFD. Based on this, the macroinvertebrate community appeared to be sensitive and able to characterize the reservoirs' water quality.		[Pinto, Ivo; Rodrigues, Sara; Antunes, Sara C.] Fac Ciencias Univ Porto FCUP, Dept Biol, Rua Campo Alegre S-N, P-4169007 Porto, Portugal; [Pinto, Ivo; Rodrigues, Sara; Antunes, Sara C.] Ctr Interdisciplinar Invest Marinha & Ambiental C, Terminal Cruzeiros Porto Leixoes, Ave Gen Norton Matos S-N, P-4450208 Matosinhos, Portugal; [Antunes, Sara C.] Fac Ciencias Univ Porto FCUP, Dept Biol, Rua Campo Alegre S-N, P-4169007 Porto, Portugal; [Antunes, Sara C.] Ctr Interdisciplinar Invest Marinha & Ambiental C, Terminal Cruzeiros Porto Leixoes, Ave Gen Norton Matos S-N, P-4450208 Matosinhos, Portugal								7							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000735127900001		
J	Samuel, Solomon Oloruntoba; Suzuki, Kazuki; Asiloglu, Rasit; Harada, Naoki								Soil-root interface influences the assembly of the endophytic bacterial community in rice plants								BIOLOGY AND FERTILITY OF SOILS				58	1			35	48		10.1007/s00374-021-01611-y			JAN 2022	2022	To highlight the importance of the soil-root interface in bacterial root colonization, we performed 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing on the Illumina MiSeq platform to characterize the bacterial endophytes of rice plants grown by two experiments - soil and hydroponic, considering their soil, solution, and endosphere compartments. We hypothesized that rice plants from both experiments would exhibit dissimilar endophytic bacterial communities. Alpha-diversity (richness (ASVs), Shannon index, Faith's phylogenetic diversity, and Pielou's evenness) for bacterial endophytes was lower in the soil experiment than in the hydroponic experiment. However, the rhizospheric soil exhibited higher microbial diversity and richness than the hydroponic solution after 6 weeks. Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were the most dominant phyla in both experiments, while several other bacterial taxa showed major differences at genus levels. A Venn diagram revealed that 5 overlapping bacterial genera were shared by the endosphere and rhizosphere/solution compartments of both experiments. Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) based on weighted UniFrac distances showed a clear distinction between microbial communities of all sampled compartments. Furthermore, PERMANOVA results showed that the endophyte communities of both experiments differed significantly (p < 0.001). Overall, this study suggests that the soil-root interface plays a significant role in determining the bacterial endophyte community in rice plants, and the different patterns of endophytic colonization of the rice roots in both experiments were likely influenced by factors that may include bacterial motility, biofilm formation, as well as the decreased effects of root exudates due to dissolution in the solution of the hydroponic experiment.		[Samuel, Solomon Oloruntoba] Niigata Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Nishi Ku, 8050 Ikarashi 2, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Suzuki, Kazuki] Niigata Univ, Inst Res Promot, Ctr Transdisciplinary Res, Nishi Ku, 8050 Ikarashi 2, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Asiloglu, Rasit] Niigata Univ, Fac Agr, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Harada, Naoki] Niigata Univ, Inst Sci & Technol, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Suzuki, Kazuki] Niigata Univ, Inst Res Promot, Ctr Transdisciplinary Res, Nishi Ku, 8050 Ikarashi 2, Niigata 9502181, Japan								11							Soil Science	WOS:000722478600001		
J	Araujo, Emily Silva; Benatto, Alessandra; Miras-Avalos, Jose Manuel; Rogoski, Thais; Oelke, Suelen Ferreira; Schussler, Matheus; Ferla, Noeli Juarez; de Carvalho, Suzana Aparecida; Cassilha Zawadneak, Maria Aparecida								Acarofauna present in organic strawberry fields and associated weed species in southern Brazil								EXPERIMENTAL AND APPLIED ACAROLOGY				86	1			91	115		10.1007/s10493-021-00675-7			JAN 2022	2022	The presence of weeds in the margins of strawberry crops can enhance populations of predatory mites as a measure to support conservation biological control. The aims of this study were (i) to assess the composition of the acarofauna associated with strawberries and the accompanying herbaceous plants in an organic farming system, and (ii) to evaluate the possible relationships between phytophagous and predatory mites occurring in this system. Strawberry leaves and whole plants of weeds were sampled biweekly from August 2014 to February 2015 in Lapa (Parana, Brazil). In total, 23 weed species belonging to 10 families were identified; 3768 mite individuals (from 15 families and 4 suborders) were recovered, 77% on strawberries and 23% on weeds. Abundance of predatory mites on weeds was greater than on strawberry cultivars. On strawberries, the most abundant family was Tetranychidae (84%) followed by Phytoseiidae (11.6%). In total, 16 predatory mite species from the Phytoseiidae family were identified, 13 of them occurring on strawberry leaflets. Typholodromalus aripo, Neoseiulus californicus and Typhlodromips mangleae were the most abundant mite species on strawberry leaves. On weeds, most individuals were predatory mites (59%), whereas phytophagous mites represented 17.2%. The most abundant family was Phytoseiidae (36.4%). On weeds, the phytoseiid mite T. aripo was the most abundant species, representing 34.7%. Besides being found on strawberry leaflets, T. aripo was associated with 15 weed species. Among the weeds, Bidens pilosa showed the highest values of the Shannon index (1.97), Margalef index (3.04), and Pielou's evenness index (0.95). This study emphasizes the importance of surrounding weeds as a shelter for beneficial mitefauna in strawberry fields, likely contributing to enhance conservation biological control.		[Araujo, Emily Silva; Benatto, Alessandra; Rogoski, Thais; Oelke, Suelen Ferreira; Cassilha Zawadneak, Maria Aparecida] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Dept Patol Basica, Setor Ciencias Biol, BR-81531990 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Miras-Avalos, Jose Manuel] CSIC, Ctr Invest & Tecnol Agroalimentaria Aragon CITA, Unidad Suelos & Riegos Asociada EEAD, Av Montanana 930, Zaragoza 50059, Spain; [Schussler, Matheus; Ferla, Noeli Juarez] Univ Vale Taquari Univates, Lab Acarol, Tecnovates, BR-95900000 Lajeado, RS, Brazil; [de Carvalho, Suzana Aparecida] Agencia Def Agr ADAPAR, Rua Funcionarios 1559, BR-80003505 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Araujo, Emily Silva] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Dept Patol Basica, Setor Ciencias Biol, BR-81531990 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								1							Entomology	WOS:000720188400001		
J	Xu, Xinyu; Qiu, Yunpeng; Zhang, Kangcheng; Yang, Fei; Chen, Mengfei; Luo, Xi; Yan, Xuebin; Wang, Peng; Zhang, Yi; Chen, Huaihai; Guo, Hui; Jiang, Lin; Hu, Shuijin								Climate warming promotes deterministic assembly of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal communities								GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY				28	3			1147	1161		10.1111/gcb.15945			FEB 2022	2022	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) significantly contribute to plant resource acquisition and play important roles in mediating plant interactions and soil carbon (C) dynamics. However, it remains unclear how AMF communities respond to climate change. We assessed impacts of warming and precipitation alterations (30% increase or decrease) on soil AMF communities, and examined major ecological processes shaping the AMF community assemblage in a Tibetan alpine meadow. Our results showed that warming significantly increased root biomass, and available nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in soil. While precipitation alterations increased AMF abundances, they did not significantly affect the composition or diversity of AMF communities. In contrast, warming altered the composition of AMF communities and reduced their Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's evenness. In particular, warming shifted the AMF community composition in favor of Diversisporaceae over Glomeraceae, likely through its impact on soil N and P availability. In addition, AMF communities were phylogenetically random in the unwarmed control but clustered in warming plots, implying more deterministic community assembly under climate warming. Warming enhancement of root growth, N and P availability likely reduced plant C-allocation to AMF, imposing stronger environmental filtering on AMF communities. We further proposed a conceptual framework that integrates biological and geochemical processes into a mechanistic understanding of warming and precipitation changes' effects on AMF. Taken together, these results suggest that soil AMF communities may be more sensitive to warming than expected, highlighting the need to monitor their community structure and associated functional consequences on plant communities and soil C dynamics under the future warmer climate.		[Xu, Xinyu; Qiu, Yunpeng; Zhang, Kangcheng; Yang, Fei; Chen, Mengfei; Luo, Xi; Yan, Xuebin; Wang, Peng; Zhang, Yi; Guo, Hui; Hu, Shuijin] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Nanjing 210095, Peoples R China; [Chen, Huaihai] Sun Yat Sen Univ, Sch Ecol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Lin] Georgia Inst Technol, Sch Biol Sci, Atlanta, GA USA; [Hu, Shuijin] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Entomol & Plant Pathol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Qiu, Yunpeng] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Nanjing 210095, Peoples R China; [Hu, Shuijin] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Entomol & Plant Pathol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA								22							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000715328600001		
J	Bianchini, Leonardo; Marucci, Alvaro; Sateriano, Adele; Di Stefano, Valerio; Alemanno, Riccardo; Colantoni, Andrea								Urbanization and Long-Term Forest Dynamics in a Metropolitan Region of Southern Europe (1936-2018)								SUSTAINABILITY				13	21					12164	10.3390/su132112164			NOV 2021	2021	Although peri-urban landscapes in Southern Europe still preserve a relatively high level of biodiversity in relict natural places, urban expansion is progressively consuming agricultural land and, in some cases, forest cover. This phenomenon has (direct and indirect) environmental implications, both positive and negative. The present study contributes to clarifying the intrinsic nexus between long-term urban expansion and forest dynamics in a representative Mediterranean city based on diachronic land-use maps. We discuss some counterintuitive results of urbanization as far as forest expansion, wildfire risk, and biodiversity conservation are concerned. Forest dynamics were investigated at two time intervals (1936-1974 and 1974-2018) representing distinctive socioeconomic contexts in the Rome metropolitan area in Central Italy. Additionally, the spatial relationship between forest cover and urban growth was evaluated using settlement density as a target variable. All over the study area, forest cover grew moderately over time (from 18.3% to 19.9% in the total landscape), and decreased along the urban gradient (i.e., with settlement density) more rapidly in 2018 than in 1936. The diversification of forest types (Shannon H index) was higher in areas with medium-density settlements, indicating a tendency towards more heterogeneous and mixed structures in rural and peri-urban woods that undergo rising human pressure. The dominance of a given forest type (Simpson's D index) was higher at high settlement density areas. Evenness (Pielou's J index) was the highest at low settlement density areas. The long-term assessment of land-use dynamics in metropolitan fringes enriched with a spatially explicit analysis of forest types may inform regional planning and environmental conservation, which could delineate appropriate strategies for sustainable land management in Southern European cities.		[Bianchini, Leonardo; Marucci, Alvaro; Di Stefano, Valerio; Alemanno, Riccardo; Colantoni, Andrea] Univ Tuscia Via S Camillo Lellis, Dept Agr & Forest Sci DAFNE, I-01100 Viterbo, Italy; [Sateriano, Adele] Piazza S Giovanni Laterano, Independent Res, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Colantoni, Andrea] Univ Tuscia Via S Camillo Lellis, Dept Agr & Forest Sci DAFNE, I-01100 Viterbo, Italy; [Sateriano, Adele] Piazza S Giovanni Laterano, Independent Res, I-00185 Rome, Italy								5							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences; Environmental Studies	WOS:000722372600001		
J	Curzel, Florencia E.; Isabel Bellocq, M.; Leveau, Lucas M.								Local and landscape features of wooded streets influenced bird taxonomic and functional diversity								URBAN FORESTRY & URBAN GREENING				66						127369	10.1016/j.ufug.2021.127369			DEC 2021	2021	Wooded streets diminish the negative consequences of urban growth on biodiversity. However, bird use of wooded streets has been little studied, in most cases analyzing bird species richness and abundance in developed countries. In this study, we analyzed the relationship between environmental variables of wooded streets of Buenos Aires City (Argentina) and bird taxonomic and functional diversity as well as species and functional trait composition. We placed 26 100m x 50m transects within the wooded streets of the urban center. Bird surveys were performed during the austral spring and summer. Species richness, Pielou's evenness, Shannon index, Functional dispersion (FDis), and species and functional trait composition were analyzed. Taxonomic and functional diversity were negatively related to pedestrian and motorized vehicle traffic. On the other hand, taxonomic diversity was related positively to streets with varied tree heights. Native taxonomic diversity and functional diversity increased near green areas. The coverage of high buildings was negatively related to the native taxonomic diversity. Bird species associated with humans, such as the Rock Dove (Columba livia) and the Eared Dove (Zenaida auriculata) increased their abundances in sites with high pedestrian and motorized traffic. The House Wren (Troglodytes aedon), the Baywinged Cowbird (Agelaioides badius), and the Red-bellied Thrush (Turdus rufiventris) were positively related to varied tree heights. Birds that feed on the ground and the undergrowth were negatively associated with the coverage of high buildings. It is imperative to preserve green areas and to control motorized vehicle traffic in order to improve the environmental quality of wooded streets for supporting bird diversity.		[Curzel, Florencia E.; Isabel Bellocq, M.; Leveau, Lucas M.] Univ Buenos Aires IEGEBA CONICET UBA, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Ecol Genet & Evoluc, Ciudad Univ,Pab 2,Piso 4, RA-1426 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Curzel, Florencia E.] Univ Buenos Aires IEGEBA CONICET UBA, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Ecol Genet & Evoluc, Ciudad Univ,Pab 2,Piso 4, RA-1426 Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								10							Plant Sciences; Environmental Studies; Forestry; Urban Studies	WOS:000714817700001		
J	Wang, Qiuxuan; Song, Li; Agusti, Susana; Duarte, Carlos; Christakos, George; Wu, Jiaping								Changes of the Macrobenthos Community with Non-native Mangrove Rehabilitation (<i>Kandelia obovata</i>) and Salt Marsh Invasion (<i>Spartina alterniflora</i>) in Ximen Island, Zhejiang, China								OCEAN SCIENCE JOURNAL				56	4			395	405		10.1007/s12601-021-00037-9			DEC 2021	2021	Macrobenthos organisms are vital ecological components of intertidal wetlands. This work studied effects of non-native mangrove rehabilitation (Kandelia obovata) and salt marsh invasion (Spartina alterniflora) on macrobenthos communities in Ximen Island (Zhejiang, China). The macrobenthos communities were compared between rehabilitated K. obovata forests of five different stand ages (2-, 8-, 11-, 16-, and 60-year-old) and adjacent S. alterniflora marsh and non-vegetated mudflat. Compared to the mudflat, S. alterniflora increased the abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), and Margalef's richness index (d') of macrobenthos. Gastropoda abundance was high in the S. alterniflora marsh, whereas, malacostraca biomass was low. Within mangrove forests, macrobenthos abundance was positively correlated with the stand age of mangroves (Spearman Correlation, P < 0.05), but the corresponding H', d' and Pielou's evenness index (J') showed negative correlations. Gastropoda dominated over macrobenthos in the younger stands (2-11 years in age), whereas, phascolosomatidea and bivalvia were more abundant in the older stands (16 and 60 years in age). Noticeably, the highest biomass for malacostraca was recorded from the 11-year-old stand. Macrobenthos communities differed among habitats, with the divergence in community structure between the S. alterniflora marsh and mangrove stands increasing with mangrove stand age, to be significantly different for stands planted over 16 years ago. Since the 16-year-old stand exhibited similar macrobenthos features to the 60-year-old stand, we speculated that, in the case of macrobenthos, a rehabilitated K. obovata forest can reach its maturity level at a time period of about 15 years in Ximen Island.		[Wang, Qiuxuan; Song, Li; Christakos, George; Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China; [Agusti, Susana; Duarte, Carlos] King Abdullah Univ Sci & Technol, Red Sea Res Ctr, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia; [Christakos, George] San Diego State Univ, Dept Geog, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China								10							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000710870000001		
J	Sajina, A. M.; Sarkar, U. K.; Canciyal, J.; Das, B. K.; Saha, A.; Mishal, P.; Jesna, P. K.; Ramteke, M.; Das, A. K.								Influence of cage farming and environmental parameters on spatio-temporal variability of fish assemblage structure in a tropical reservoir of Peninsular India								LIMNOLOGICA				91						125925	10.1016/j.limno.2021.125925			NOV 2021	2021	Fish assemblage structure in Palair reservoir, a medium tropical reservoir along the river Paleru, a tributary of river Krishna in Southern India, was studied along the spatial gradient of the impoundment. The abundance and assemblage structure of wild fish aggregated around the fish cage units installed in the reservoir were assessed and compared with other sites. Seasonal sampling was carried out and fish community structure in terms of species composition and abundance, trophic guild, niche, tolerance, resilience and conservation status were analyzed. A total of 38 fish species were recorded wherein the family Cyprinidae dominated in the number of species (15) followed by Cichlidae and Channidae (3 each). Margalef richness index (d), Pielou's evenness index (J'), Simpson's index (1-lambda) and Shannon index (H') revealed significant variation across different zones. Species richness was maximum in the Site1 (d = 4.44-5.12), whereas the abundance of individuals was maximum at Site4 (H' = 2.65-2.86) i.e. near cage in the lacustrine zone. The important species contributing to the dissimilarities among the zones were identified and percentage of their contribution was estimated using SIMPER analysis. Trophic guild of fishes indicated the dominance of omnivorous species followed by carnivores, indicating the heterotrophic phase of the reservoir. The spatial and seasonal variations in the fish assemblage structure were tested applying statistical analyses such as PERMANOVA and nMDS. The results indicated a positive impact of cage farming in supporting the wild fish fauna, influencing the large aggregations of fishes around the cages. The temporal variability in the cage-associated fish assemblage was related to recruitment periods of juveniles (e.g. E. maculates and E. suratensis in summer, and S. seenghala in monsoon seasons). The links between fish assemblages and environmental parameters were explored through DISTILM and the deterministic factors for fish abundance in the reservoir were phosphate, pH, dissolved Oxygen, total hardness and depth. The study also indicated the impacts of cage culture with record of accidental escapes of farmed fish to the reservoir system. The baseline information generated and recommendations formulated in the study are crucial for the conservation of fish diversity, fisheries enhancement and management planning of tropical peninsular reservoirs.		[Sajina, A. M.; Sarkar, U. K.; Canciyal, J.; Das, B. K.; Saha, A.; Mishal, P.; Jesna, P. K.; Ramteke, M.; Das, A. K.] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Sarkar, U. K.] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India								3							Limnology	WOS:000709878600001		
J	Kawamoto, Dione; Borges, Rodrigo; Ribeiro, Rodolfo Alvarenga; de Souza, Robson Franciso; Amado, Pamela Pontes Penas; Saraiva, Luciana; Horliana, Ana Carolina Ratto Tempestini; Faveri, Marcelo; Mayer, Marcia Pinto Alves								Oral Dysbiosis in Severe Forms of Periodontitis Is Associated With Gut Dysbiosis and Correlated With Salivary Inflammatory Mediators: A Preliminary Study								FRONTIERS IN ORAL HEALTH				2						722495	10.3389/froh.2021.722495			OCT 11 2021	2021	Inflammation is a driven force in modulating microbial communities, but little is known about the interplay between colonizing microorganisms and the immune response in periodontitis. Since local and systemic inflammation may play a whole role in disease, we aimed to evaluate the oral and fecal microbiome of patients with periodontitis and to correlate the oral microbiome data with levels of inflammatory mediator in saliva.Methods: Nine patients with periodontitis (P) in Stage 3/Grade B and nine age-matched non-affected controls (H) were evaluated. Microbial communities of oral biofilms (the supra and subgingival from affected and non-affected sites) and feces were determined by sequencing analysis of the 16SrRNA V3-V4 region. Salivary levels of 40 chemokines and cytokines were correlated with oral microbiome data.Results: Supragingival microbial communities of P differed from H (Pielou's evenness index, and Beta diversity, and weighted UniFrac), since relative abundance (RA) of Defluviitaleaceae, Desulfobulbaceae, Mycoplasmataceae, Peptostreococcales-Tissierellales, and Campylobacteraceae was higher in P, whereas Muribaculaceae and Streptococcaceae were more abundant in H. Subgingival non-affected sites of P did not differ from H, except for a lower abundance of Gemellaceae. The microbiome of affected periodontitis sites (PD >= 4 mm) clustered apart from the subgingival sites of H. Oral pathobionts was more abundant in sub and supragingival biofilms of P than H. Fecal samples of P were enriched with Acidaminococcus, Clostridium, Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, Megasphaera, and Romboutsia when compared to H. The salivary levels of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and inflammatory chemokines were positively correlated with the RA of several recognized and putative pathobionts, whereas the RA of beneficial species, such as Rothia aeria and Haemophilus parainfluenzae was negatively correlated with the levels of Chemokine C-C motif Ligand 2 (CCL2), which is considered protective. Dysbiosis in patients with periodontitis was not restricted to periodontal pockets but was also seen in the supragingival and subgingival non-affected sites and feces. Subgingival dysbiosis revealed microbial signatures characteristic of different immune profiles, suggesting a role for candidate pathogens and beneficial organisms in the inflammatory process of periodontitis.		[Kawamoto, Dione; Ribeiro, Rodolfo Alvarenga; de Souza, Robson Franciso; Amado, Pamela Pontes Penas; Mayer, Marcia Pinto Alves] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Microbiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Borges, Rodrigo] Ctr Int Pesquisa CIPE, Lab Biol Computac & Bioinformat, AC Camargo Canc Ctr, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Saraiva, Luciana; Mayer, Marcia Pinto Alves] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Dent, Dept Stomatol, Div Periodontol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Horliana, Ana Carolina Ratto Tempestini] Univ Nove Julho, Biophoton Appl Hlth Sci, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Faveri, Marcelo] Univ Guarulhos, Dept Periodontol, Dent Res Div, Guarulhos, Brazil; [Mayer, Marcia Pinto Alves] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biomed Sci, Dept Microbiol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Mayer, Marcia Pinto Alves] Univ Sao Paulo, Sch Dent, Dept Stomatol, Div Periodontol, Sao Paulo, Brazil								20							Dentistry, Oral Surgery & Medicine	WOS:000995171700001		
J	Johnson, Canciyal; Sarkar, Uttam Kumar; Koushlesh, Satish Kumar; Das, Archan Kanti; Das, Basanta Kumar; Naskar, Bablu Kumar								Fish assemblage, ecosystem status and potential impact of Nile Tilapia in Halali Reservoir of Central India								ENVIRONMENT DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY				24	6			7753	7775		10.1007/s10668-021-01756-8			JUN 2022	2022	The pattern of spatial fish assemblage, diversity, habitat, and potential impact of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) was studied in a tropical reservoir of central India during June 2018-July 2019. A total of 21 species under six orders nine families and 18 genera were recorded which is comparatively low than previous records. The fish abundance similarity showed a maximum similarity of 78% between site 1 and site 3 clusters. The results of species composition showed increased abundance of O. niloticus species (> 80%) in the fishery and have now established feral population in the reservoir. The mean Simpson dominance index (1 - lambda), the Shannon diversity index (H '), Pielou's evenness index (J ') and Margalef's richness index (d) were determined for three different sites followed by Mann-Whitney U test which showed a significant difference at spatial scale. Bray-Curtis cluster analysis of physicochemical parameters showed a similarity of 96% between site 1 and site 2. Comparison with the previous study three physicochemical parameters (total alkalinity, total hardness and chloride) showed the considerable changes. Relationships between fish assemblages and environmental parameters were examined by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Six physicochemical parameters (i.e., DO, pH, Nitrate, Mg, Phosphate and Silicate) showed statistically significant to shaping fish diversity (p < 0.05). The high value of dissolved oxygen coupled with low biochemical oxygen demand and other nutrient levels indicates that the water body is moderately oligotrophic in nature. The responsible factors for declining indigenous fish population and threats are discussed. The study recommends specific management measures which could be useful to develop a sustainable fishery practice vis-a-vis conservation of fish diversity.		[Johnson, Canciyal; Sarkar, Uttam Kumar; Koushlesh, Satish Kumar; Das, Archan Kanti; Das, Basanta Kumar; Naskar, Bablu Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India; [Sarkar, Uttam Kumar] ICAR Cent Inland Fisheries Res Inst, Kolkata 700120, India								5							Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000685771600001		
J	Mahmoudi, Mohamed; Bejaoui, Wiem; Ben Ali, Manel; Hedfi, Amor; Almalki, Mohammed; Essid, Naceur; Mahmoudi, Ezzeddine; Rizk, Roquia; Pacioglu, Octavian; Urkmez, Derya; Dervishi, Aida; Boufahja, Fehmi								How effective is wastewater treatment? A case study under the light of taxonomic and feeding features of meiobenthic nematodes								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				29	2			2566	2578		10.1007/s11356-021-15844-9			JAN 2022	2022	A microcosm bioassay was designed to assess the efficacy of wastewater treatment methods used in sewage plants. The taxonomic and feeding characteristics of a meiobenthic nematode assemblage from Ghar El Melh lagoon (Tunisia) were used to achieve this goal. Nematode assemblages were exposed for 30 days to untreated wastewater (UW) obtained from the sewage treatment plant of Sidi Ahmed (Tunisia) and three mixtures with treated wastewater (TW33 = 33%, TW66 = 66%, and TW100 = 100%). Concerning the nematode abundance, the exposure to either treated wastewater (TW33-100) or untreated wastewater (UW) had no significant effect. In contrast, Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's Evenness were clearly reduced by contamination with both types of wastewater, with a more pronounced negative impact prior to treatment in the sewage plant. The multivariate analyzes revealed a change in the taxonomic composition of the nematofauna in response to the contamination by untreated or treated wastewater. The relative abundances of species in wastewater replicates compared to controls reflected this taxonomic restructuring. Finally, Ascolaimus elongatus, Terschellingia communis, and Kraspedonema octogoniata were less represented in all experimentally treated units and could be considered as 'sensitive taxa to wastewater'. While, Paracomesoma dubium, appears to be a 'tolerant and/or opportunistic' species, showing increased relative abundances under all wastewater treatments.		[Mahmoudi, Mohamed; Essid, Naceur; Mahmoudi, Ezzeddine; Boufahja, Fehmi] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Coastal Ecol & Ecotoxicol Unit, LR01ES14 Lab Environm Biomonitoring, Zarzouna 7021, Tunisia; [Bejaoui, Wiem] Univ Manouba Biotechnopole Sidi Thabet, LR Biotechnol & Biogeo Resources Valorizat LR11ES, Higher Inst Biotechnol, Ariana 2020, Tunisia; [Ben Ali, Manel; Hedfi, Amor; Almalki, Mohammed] Taif Univ, Coll Sci, Dept Biol, POB 11099, At Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia; [Rizk, Roquia] Univ Pannonia, Res Ctr Biochem Environm & Chem Engn, Sustainabil Solut Res Lab, Egyet Str 10, H-8200 Veszprem, Hungary; [Rizk, Roquia] Cairo Univ, Fac Agr, Biochemisrty Dept, Cairo, Egypt; [Pacioglu, Octavian] Natl Inst Res & Dev Biol Sci, Bucharest, Romania; [Urkmez, Derya] Sinop Univ, Sci & Technol Res & Applicat Ctr, TR-57000 Sinop, Turkey; [Dervishi, Aida] Univ Tirana, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Biotechnol, Zog 1 25-1, Tirana 1001, Albania; [Boufahja, Fehmi] Univ Carthage, Fac Sci Bizerte, Coastal Ecol & Ecotoxicol Unit, LR01ES14 Lab Environm Biomonitoring, Zarzouna 7021, Tunisia								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000683320600010		
J	Wang, Qiuxuan; Duarte, Carlos; Song, Li; Christakos, George; Agusti, Susana; Wu, Jiaping								Effects of Ecological Restoration Using Non-Native Mangrove <i>Kandelia obovata</i> to Replace Invasive <i>Spartina alterniflora</i> on Intertidal Macrobenthos Community in Maoyan Island (Zhejiang, China)								JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING				9	8					788	10.3390/jmse9080788			AUG 2021	2021	Spartina alterniflora has extensively invaded the coastline of China, including in Maoyan Island of Zhejiang Province. Ecological restoration has been conducted using non-native mangrove Kandelia obovata to replace S. alterniflora in an attempt to restore the impacted intertidal zones. To illustrate the ecological effectiveness of the restoration projects, macrobenthos communities were studied among different habitats within the restored areas, including one non-restored S. alterniflora marsh (SA) and three differently-aged restored K. obovata stands planted in 2003, 2009, and 2011 respectively (KF14, KF8, and KF6). Besides, one unvegetated mudflat (MF) adjacent to the non-restored S. alterniflora marsh and one K. obovata forest transplanted in 2006 (RKF) at a previously barren mudflat without invasion history of S. alterniflora were set as reference sites. A total of 69 species of macrobenthos were collected from Maoyan Island, and the species richness was dominated by gastropoda (23 species), polychaeta (18 species), and malacostraca (16 species). There was no significant difference between the six sites in terms of the abundance of macrobenthos, with the average values of abundance peaking in KF6 (734.7 ind m(-2)) and being lowest in RKF (341.3 ind m(-2)). The six sites had significant differences in terms of the biomass of macrobenthos. The KF8 site contained the highest average biomass (168.3 g m(-2)), whereas the MF site had the lowest (54.3 g m(-2)). The Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index of the macrobenthos did not exhibit significant differences among the six sites. However, the results of permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) revealed significant spatial differences in the macrobenthos community structure between the sites. Since KF14 shared a similar macrobenthos community structure with RKF, while representing a strikingly different structure from SA, we infer that ecological restoration using K. obovata can restore the macrobenthos community to resemble to a normally planted K. obovata forest about 15 years after restoration.		[Wang, Qiuxuan; Song, Li; Christakos, George; Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China; [Duarte, Carlos; Agusti, Susana] King Abdullah Univ Sci & Technol, Red Sea Res Ctr, Thuwal 23955, Saudi Arabia; [Christakos, George] San Diego State Univ, Dept Geog, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Wu, Jiaping] Zhejiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Zhoushan 316000, Peoples R China								10							Engineering, Marine; Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000689445600001		
J	Jiang, Shuangcheng; Lin, Peimei; Cai, Yihua; Chen, Ding; Pan, Zhong; Lin, Hui; Wang, Fuli; Lin, Qi								Association of Seawater Nanoparticle Size Distribution With Diversity of Marine Plankton								FRONTIERS IN WATER				3						706875	10.3389/frwa.2021.706875			JUL 29 2021	2021	Upon tangential ultrafiltration and asymmetric flow field analyses, seawater nanoparticle size distribution and the associations with the total number of bacteria and plankton diversity were evaluated. Of the nanoparticles in the Jiulong River Estuary, 79% were from 1 to 6 nm (C-1). C-2 (6-20 nm) was correlated with dissolved organic carbon, while C-2 and C-3 (> 20 nm) were associated with dissolved inorganic nitrogen, suggesting that C-2 and C-3 were impacted by biogenic elements. The total number of bacteria was correlated with C-1 and C-3. The correlations of Shannon's diversity index (H') and C-3, richness (d), and C-1 suggested a link of particle size with phytoplankton biodiversity. Significant correlations of the H' of zooplankton and C-3, and of Pielou's evenness index (J) and C-3, suggested C-3 as a primary digestion product of zooplankton. The negative correlations of nano-organic carbon (NOC) with d and J suggested NOC as a carbon source for zooplankton. Biodiversity was associated with seawater nanoparticle size distribution. Biological activities regulated the nanoparticle size distribution, which impacted the estuarine nutrient cycling, in turn affecting the stability and balance of biodiversity. Correlation analysis of the size distribution of seawater nanoparticles and the plankton diversity index provided a potential tool for evaluating ecological effects.		[Jiang, Shuangcheng; Lin, Qi] Fisheries Res Inst Fujian, Marine Environm & Aquat Prod Qual Inspect Ctr, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Lin, Peimei; Cai, Yihua; Chen, Ding; Wang, Fuli] Xiamen Univ, Coll Ocean & Earth Sci, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Lin, Peimei] Xiamen Fifth Middle Sch, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Pan, Zhong; Lin, Hui] Minist Nat Resources, Inst Oceanog 3, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Lin, Qi] Fisheries Res Inst Fujian, Marine Environm & Aquat Prod Qual Inspect Ctr, Xiamen, Peoples R China; [Pan, Zhong] Minist Nat Resources, Inst Oceanog 3, Xiamen, Peoples R China								0							Water Resources	WOS:000684668600001		
J	Aarnio, Sonja; Soininen, Janne								Taxonomic and functional diversity covary in rock pool microalgal communities despite their different drivers								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11	17			11852	11873		10.1002/ece3.7953			SEP 2021	2021	Local biodiversity has traditionally been estimated with taxonomic diversity metrics such as species richness. Recently, the concept of biodiversity has been extended beyond species identity by ecological traits determining the functional role of a species in a community. This interspecific functional diversity typically responds more strongly to local environmental variation compared with taxonomic diversity, while taxonomic diversity may mirror more strongly dispersal processes compared with functional metrics. Several trait-based indices have been developed to measure functional diversity for various organisms and habitat types, but studies of their applicability on aquatic microbial communities have been underrepresented. We examined the drivers and covariance of taxonomic and functional diversity among diatom rock pool communities on the Baltic Sea coast. We quantified three taxonomic (species richness, Shannon's diversity, and Pielou's evenness) and three functional (functional richness, evenness, and divergence) diversity indices and determined abiotic factors best explaining variation in these indices by generalized linear mixed models. The six diversity indices were highly collinear except functional evenness, which merely correlated significantly with taxonomic evenness. All diversity indices were always explained by water conductivity and temperature-sampling month interaction. Taxonomic diversity was further consistently explained by pool distance to the sea, and functional richness and divergence by pool location. The explained variance in regression models did not markedly differ between taxonomic and functional metrics. Our findings do not clearly support the superiority of neither set of diversity indices in explaining coastal microbial diversity, but rather highlight the general overlap among the indices. However, as individual metrics may be driven by different factors, the greatest advantage in assessing biodiversity is nevertheless probably achieved with a simultaneous application of the taxonomic and functional diversity metrics.		[Aarnio, Sonja; Soininen, Janne] Univ Helsinki, Dept Geosci & Geog, POB 64, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Aarnio, Sonja] Univ Helsinki, Dept Geosci & Geog, POB 64, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland								2							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000678661000001		
J	Wale, Melaku; Yesuf, Sofia								Abundance and diversity of soil arthropods in disturbed and undisturbed ecosystem in Western Amhara, Ethiopia								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF TROPICAL INSECT SCIENCE				42	1			767	781		10.1007/s42690-021-00600-w			FEB 2022	2022	Arthropods are indispensable because of their role in the food chain and in the recycling of ecosystem resources. The objective of the study was to assess the diversity and abundance of soil arthropods in selected habitats in northwestern Ethiopia. Soil arthropod taxa richness and abundance were estimated using transect sampling from January 2019 to May 2020. Data were analyzed using analysis of variance, diversity indices, detrended correspondence analysis, and cluster analysis. A total of 5512 arthropods were found, i.e., 2585 macro- and 2927 micro-arthropods. Fifty-seven percent (3054) were found in the forest, 29% (1670) in the grassland and 14% (788) in the cultivated area. According to the Shannon-Weaver index, species diversity of soil macro-arthropods was higher in the forest and grassland (H ' > 2) habitats than the cultivated ((H ' < 2); Pielou's evenness showed that micro-arthropods were found to be more evenly distributed (J > 0.9) than macro-arthropods (J < 0.9). Macro-arthropods showed more Menhinick species richness (range: 0.37 to 0.63) than micro-arthropods (range: 0.13 to 0.24); Margalef index showed similar pattern. Berger-Parker dominance was higher on micro- (> 0.37) than macroarthropods (< 0.33). Macro-arthropods had higher Chao 1 index (12 to 14) than micro-arthropods (5). Number of soil arthropods varied significantly between habitats and between sampling dates (macro-arthropods: F = 16.5, df = 153,224, P < .0001; micro-arthropods: F = 15.7, df = 54, 80, P < .0001). The detrended correspondence analysis showed relationships between habitats and soil arthropods (e.g., wasps were relatively more associated with the forest habitat), and the cluster analysis grouped the different soil arthropods based on their degree of similarity in abundance (e.g., ants and termites stood out clearly separated). Biomass and soil moisture content was relatively less in March. The present study confirmed that soil arthropods thrived generally more abundantly in undisturbed habitats (forests) than in cultivated and grasslands. This implies the need to step up conservation schemes in more representative sites in this ecosystem.		[Wale, Melaku] Bahir Dar Univ, Sci Coll, Dept Biol, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia; [Yesuf, Sofia] Ebinat Preparatory Sch, South Gondar Zone, Ebinat, Ethiopia; [Wale, Melaku] Bahir Dar Univ, Sci Coll, Dept Biol, POB 79, Bahir Dar, Ethiopia								3							Entomology	WOS:000674521400001		
J	Ren, Qingqiang; Liang, Cui; Liu, Chunlong; Xian, Weiwei								Characterizing the nektonic invertebrate communities in the Yangtze River estuary and its adjacent waters								REGIONAL STUDIES IN MARINE SCIENCE				45						101847	10.1016/j.rsma.2021.101847			JUN 2021	2021	Although fisheries for invertebrates are increasing rapidly worldwide, many of them lack the rigid assessments and regulations that are typical of finfish fisheries. We report nektonic invertebrate communities of the Yangtze River estuary in the boreal autumn (November) from 2013 to 2017, and report how these are related to environmental variables. Communities comprise 26 macro-invertebrate nektonic species in 11 families, of which 8 species are dominant in abundance and biomass. Significant temporal variation in abundance, biomass, and diversity is apparent. Highest Margalef richness (D), Shannon-Wiener diversity (H'), and Pielou's evenness (J') index values occur in 2015, and the lowest occur in 2017. Abundance and biomass peak in 2013 and decline to their lowest values in 2017. Redundancy analysis and analysis of similarities identify significant spatial and temporal variation in nektonic invertebrate communities to have occurred from 2013 to 2017, attributable to variations in dissolved oxygen, temperature, salinity, total suspended matter, and pH. Significantly different communities occur in the northern and southern waters. Depth, total suspended matter, dissolved oxygen, pH, and total phosphorus significantly affect the distributions of dominant species. An improved understanding of spatial and temporal variation in nektonic invertebrate communities of the Yangtze River estuary facilitates their conservation and resource management. (C) 2021 Published by Elsevier B.V.		[Ren, Qingqiang; Liang, Cui; Xian, Weiwei] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, CAS Key Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Ren, Qingqiang; Liang, Cui; Xian, Weiwei] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Ren, Qingqiang] Xiamen Univ, Coll Ocean & Earth Sci, Xiamen, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Liang, Cui; Xian, Weiwei] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Liu, Chunlong] Free Univ Berlin, Inst Biol, D-14195 Berlin, Germany; [Liu, Chunlong] Leibniz Inst Freshwater Ecol & Inland Fisheries I, D-12587 Berlin, Germany; [Liu, Chunlong] Berlin Brandenburg Inst Adv Biodivers Res BBIB, D-14195 Berlin, Germany; [Liu, Chunlong] Univ Paris Saclay, CNRS, AgroParisTech, Ecol Syst Evolut, F-91405 Orsay, France; [Xian, Weiwei] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, CAS Key Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000661340700011		
J	Balazy, Piotr; Anderson, Marti J.; Chelchowski, Maciej; Wlodarska-Kowalczuk, Maria; Kuklinski, Piotr; Berge, Jorgen								Shallow-Water Scavengers of Polar Night and Day - An Arctic Time-Lapse Photography Study								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				8						656772	10.3389/fmars.2021.656772			MAY 24 2021	2021	Until recently, polar night constituted truly a "mare incognitum" of our times. Yet, the first records from this very little-explored period showcased a surprisingly rich and active ecosystem. This investigation aims to reveal the level of scavenger activity during both Arctic polar night and day. It compares the shallow-water scavenging fauna observed during two contrasting seasons (winter vs. summer) in a high Arctic fjord (Kongsfjorden, 79? N, Spitsbergen, Svalbard Archipelago). In each of January and July 2015, two different bait types - Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) and a bird carcass (chicken meat) were deployed at a depth of 12 m. Fauna were monitored remotely using time-lapse cameras equipped with bait traps, with photographs taken every 15 min over a period of 4 days. Thirty taxa were recorded at baits, dominated by lysianassid amphipods (Onisimus sp. 88%, Anonyx sp. 2%, but only during winter), and buccinid gastropods (B. undatum 5%, B. glaciale 1%, Buccinum sp. 3%, in both seasons). In most cases, buccinids were the first animals to appear at bait. The total number of recorded taxa, mean species richness per sampling unit, total abundance and associations among taxa were higher, on average, in winter than in summer deployments, while Pielou's evenness index showed the opposite pattern. Scavenger assemblages differed significantly between the two seasons and also in response to the two different bait types, with seasonal effects being strongest. Contrary to expectations, bait consumption rates differed very little between the two seasons, being slow in general and only slightly faster in summer (0.05 g of cod bait consumed in 1 min) compared to winter (0.04 g min-1), yielding novel insights into ecological interactions and functions in shallow marine ecosystems during Arctic polar nights. <comment>Superscript/Subscript Available</comment		[Balazy, Piotr; Chelchowski, Maciej; Wlodarska-Kowalczuk, Maria; Kuklinski, Piotr] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Marine Ecol Dept, Sopot, Poland; [Balazy, Piotr] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Leading Natl Res Ctr, Ctr Polar Studies KNOW, Sopot, Poland; [Anderson, Marti J.] Massey Univ, New Zealand Inst Adv Study, Auckland, New Zealand; [Anderson, Marti J.] PRIMERe Quest Res Ltd, Auckland, New Zealand; [Berge, Jorgen] UiT Arctic Univ Norway, Fac Biosci Fisheries & Econ, Tromso, Norway; [Berge, Jorgen] Univ Ctr Svalbard, Dept Biol, Longyearbyen, Norway; [Berge, Jorgen] Norwegian Univ Sci & Technol, NTNU, Ctr Autonomous Marine Operat & Syst, Dept Biol, Trondheim, Norway; [Balazy, Piotr] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Marine Ecol Dept, Sopot, Poland; [Balazy, Piotr] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Leading Natl Res Ctr, Ctr Polar Studies KNOW, Sopot, Poland								1							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000656849500001		
J	Lu, Kangle; Batzer, Darold P.; Wu, Haitao								Aquatic invertebrate assemblages during the spring-thaw season in wetlands of Northeastern China								HYDROBIOLOGIA				848	17			3943	3953		10.1007/s10750-021-04615-9			OCT 2021	2021	Identifying the character and importance of invertebrates in thawing wetlands is useful, since they are the main food resource for migratory waterfowl during spring. We investigated aquatic invertebrate composition in the spring-thaw and compared it with the summer in wetlands of the Sanjiang Plain, China. NMDS analysis showed that the composition of aquatic invertebrates in the spring-thaw is significantly different from in summer. Aquatic invertebrate diversity (including Shannon-Wiener index; Margalef's species richness; Pielou's evenness) was lower in the spring-thaw, and Network analyses indicated that it was a simpler community. Indicator species were different between spring-thaw and summer. The scraper functional feeding group (i.e., snails) dominated both seasons, but especially in the spring-thaw. Snails and other invertebrates such as asellid crustaceans abounded in spring, are rich in both calcium and protein, making them to be an especially important food source for migratory waterfowl. Therefore, the spring-thaw should be a focus when assessing aquatic invertebrate function for waterfowl production.		[Lu, Kangle; Wu, Haitao] Chinese Acad Sci, Northeast Inst Geog & Agroecol, Key Lab Wetland Ecol & Environm, 4888 Shengbei St, Changchun 130102, Jilin, Peoples R China; [Lu, Kangle] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Batzer, Darold P.] Univ Georgia, Dept Entomol, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Wu, Haitao] Chinese Acad Sci, Northeast Inst Geog & Agroecol, Key Lab Wetland Ecol & Environm, 4888 Shengbei St, Changchun 130102, Jilin, Peoples R China								1							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000652911200002		
J	Heydari, Mehdi; Roshan, Sina Attar; Omidipour, Reza; Esteban Lucas-Borja, Manuel; Prevosto, Bernard								Current plant ecological features reflect historical forest management systems in semi-arid oak forests								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				167						106268	10.1016/j.ecoleng.2021.106268			SEP 1 2021	2021	The influence of the type of management applied for centuries on vegetation understory has still been underexplored in semi-arid forests. We have studied how the vegetation composition, diversity and heterogeneity were influenced by two forest systems in mature semi-arid oak forests of western Iran: abandoned coppices with standards (CS) which were traditionally intensively used and old stands naturally regenerated from seeds or 'standard system' (SS). Woody and herbaceous species abundance and cover were measured in sixty plots distributed in the two forest systems. Vegetation data were used to produce Shannon's diversity, richness and Pielou's evenness indices as well as species abundance distribution (SAD) models. We found that richness and Shannon diversity values were higher in (SS) than in (CS) for both herbaceous species (43% and 27%, respectively) and woody species (27% and 52% respectively). The two main woody species of the study and several herbaceous species were present only in SS. These results emphasized the positive role played by the long-term stable conditions of SS on plant diversity. In contrast, legacy of past disturbances in CS still negatively influenced vegetation diversity although the recovery rate after the cessation of disturbances differed between the two growth forms (herbaceous and woody). This also explained a higher vegetation heterogeneity in CS than in SS for the herbaceous species, while there was no difference for the woody species. We also showed that the best SAD model for herbaceous species included the dominance decay model in CS indicating the decreased influence of the dominant oak species in CS compared to SS. In conclusion, we showed that even after more than half a century of abandonment, CS stands still differed from SS stands in terms of vegetation composition and sheltered a lower plant diversity and richness for both herbaceous and woody species. This finding highlights the need to use complementary management measures in CS to accelerate the recovery process in particular for woody species.		[Heydari, Mehdi] Ilam Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Ilam, Iran; [Roshan, Sina Attar] Islamic AhvazUniv, Dept Environm, Ahvaz Branch, Ahvaz, Iran; [Omidipour, Reza] Ilam Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Rangeland & Watershed Management, Ilam, Iran; [Esteban Lucas-Borja, Manuel] Univ Castilla La Mancha, Escuela Tecn Super Ingn Agronomos & Montes, Campus Univ, E-02071 Albacete, Spain; [Prevosto, Bernard] Aix Marseille Univ, INRAE, UR RECOVER, Mediterranean Ecosyst & Risks, Aix En Provence, France; [Heydari, Mehdi] Ilam Univ, Fac Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Ilam, Iran								0							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000653059100005		
J	Baki, Md Zakaria Ibne; Suzuki, Kazuki; Takahashi, Kohei; Chowdhury, Sharmin Akter; Asiloglu, Rasit; Harada, Naoki								Molecular genetic characterization of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi associated with upland rice in Bangladesh								RHIZOSPHERE				18						100357	10.1016/j.rhisph.2021.100357			JUN 2021	2021	Understanding the community composition and diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in agricultural ecosystems is important for exploring their potential for use in sustainable crop production. In this study, we collected rice root samples from upland rice fields under different agricultural practices in four districts of Bangladesh (Khagrachori, Rangamati, Chattogram, and Bandarban) to estimate the AMF colonization rate and to investigate the taxonomic diversity and community composition of indigenous AMF by high-throughput Illumina amplicon sequencing. The AMF colonization rates of the rice root samples ranged between 14 and 47%, and were positively correlated with the soil pH (4.58-5.93), suggesting that more AMF colonization is likely to form under slightly acidic conditions. This result suggests that AMF colonization rate in upland rice roots might be affected by soil pH; however, no significant correlation with soil available phosphorus contents was observed. In total, eight different AMF genera were detected by amplicon sequencing. Glomus and Paraglomus were found to be the dominant genera in all the regions, followed by Scutellospora, Acaulospora, Claroideoglomus, Diversispora, Gigaspora, and Archaeospora. Shannon's diversity index and Pielou's evenness were significantly higher in the Bandarban district than the other districts, whereas Faith's phylogenetic diversity and richness showed no significant difference between the four districts. The beta diversities of AMF community composition based on the BrayCurtis dissimilarities were significantly differentiated among the districts. The soil available phosphorus contents were significantly correlated with the AMF beta diversities between the four districts. This is the first study to report on the AMF community composition and diversity in upland rice roots and on how AMF communities are affected by the soil chemical properties in different locations in Bangladesh.		[Baki, Md Zakaria Ibne; Takahashi, Kohei; Chowdhury, Sharmin Akter] Niigata Univ, Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Baki, Md Zakaria Ibne] Bangladesh Rice Res Inst, Agron Div, Gazipur 1701, Bangladesh; [Suzuki, Kazuki] Niigata Univ, Ctr Transdisciplinary Res, Inst Res Promot, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Asiloglu, Rasit] Niigata Univ, Fac Agr, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Harada, Naoki] Niigata Univ, Inst Sci & Technol, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Suzuki, Kazuki] Niigata Univ, Ctr Transdisciplinary Res, Inst Res Promot, Niigata 9502181, Japan								10							Agronomy; Plant Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000663433400009		
J	Cui Chunyan; Zhang Zhinan; Hua Er								Meiofaunal Community Spatial Distribution and Diversity as Indicators of Ecological Quality in the Bohai Sea, China								JOURNAL OF OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA				20	2			409	420		10.1007/s11802-021-4550-5			APR 2021	2021	The Bohai Sea is a semi-enclosed marginal sea in the North West Pacific. Meiofauna samples were collected from 22 stations in the Bohai Sea to document the spatial distribution, structure, and diversity of the meiofaunal community and investigate the major factors influencing the community features. A total of 20 higher taxa of meiofauna were identified. The dominant group was Nematoda, accounting for 90.8% of the total meiofaunal abundance on average, followed by Copepoda, Bivalvia, Polychaeta, Kinorhyncha, and Ostracoda. Meiofaunal abundance ranged from 121 +/- 89 ind (10 cm(2))(-1) to 3042 +/- 1054 ind (10 cm(2))(-1). Diversity indices also varied among different stations, with a Margalef's richness index (d) of 1.1-3.1, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H ') of 0.7-1.8, and Pielou's evenness index (J ') of 0.4-0.8. Meiofaunal abundance and diversity indices were significantly lower in the areas of Bohai Bay and adjacent to Laizhou Bay. The correlation analysis showed that meiofaunal abundance and diversity indices are closely linked to variations in sediment silt-clay content, medium grain size (MD phi), and chlorophyll-a concentrations. The ecological quality status of most stations can be ranked from poor to moderate based on meiofaunal richness. According to the value of nematode to copepod ratio (Ne:Co ratio), most stations are uncontaminated, except seven stations are slightly or moderately contaminated. Both meiofaunal richness and Ne:Co ratio indicate the poor ecological quality of three stations adjacent to Laizhou Bay. The efficiency of the meiofauna communities as environmental indicators will be tested in a greater area in the future studies.		[Cui Chunyan; Zhang Zhinan; Hua Er] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China; [Hua Er] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266100, Peoples R China								6							Oceanography	WOS:000626662500017		
J	Schokker, Dirkjan; de Klerk, Britt; Borg, Randy; Bossers, Alex; Rebel, Johanna M. J.								Factors Influencing the Succession of the Fecal Microbiome in Broilers								LIVESTOCK SCIENCE				247						104486	10.1016/j.livsci.2021.104486			MAY 2021	2021	Health and performance are important aspects in the broiler industry. Underlying complex traits like total mean weight and feed efficiency are polygenic and related to genetic background and an association of the microbiota with these traits has been identified. Whether this association is also reflected in the fecal samples of broilers is not extensively investigated. The objective of this study was to investigate to what extend diet, genetics, and environment influence the fecal microbiome composition during the life time of broilers. Two experiments were performed, in the first experiment the focus was on investigating if a European (EU) or United States (USA) diet effects the fecal microbiota in a commercial line (Cobb500). Whereas in the second diet (EU/USA) and lines with a genetic background (EU/USA) were investigated in relation to the fecal microbiota. In the first experiment we observed a significant effect in commercial broiler line (Cobb500) of the 3-way interaction for age by feed by sex on Total Mean Weight (TMW), and the 2-way interaction of age by feed for Feed Conversion Ratio (FCR). For the microbiota data, we observed differences in alpha-diversity for Age. When comparing the diets on a time-point, this resulted in significant differences for Observed species at day 21 and for Observed species, Shannon index, and Pielou's evenness at day 35. In the beta-diversity, a significant effect of age by feed interaction was observed. Two genera were significantly different in feces of broilers between diets, i.e. Streptococcus on day 7 and Bilophila on day 21. In the second experiment we observed only a significant effect for the main effect age on TMW. Alpha-diversity showed a significant increase for all three measures for age. Furthermore, a significant effect of environment was observed in the Observed species. This effect of environment was also observed in the beta-diversity, where a significant effect for age and environment was observed. This environmental effect was not expected, because here environment represents two different compartments within the same stable, unfortunately it was not possible to perform further down-stream analyses. This research shows the different aspects (feed, sex, genetics, and environment) influence complex traits, like TMW and FCR and are affecting the fecal microbiome. We have shown that interventions, like feed and the effect on microbiome, are reproducible between experiments. Moreover, these results with these two genetic divers chicken lines suggest that the succession of the fecal microbiota was independent of genetic background.		[Schokker, Dirkjan; Rebel, Johanna M. J.] Wageningen Livestock Res, Wageningen, Netherlands; [de Klerk, Britt; Borg, Randy] Cobb Europe BV, Boxmeer, Netherlands; [Bossers, Alex] Wageningen Biovet Res, Wageningen, Netherlands; [Schokker, Dirkjan] Postbus 338, NL-6700 AH Wageningen, Netherlands								10							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000644655300008		
J	Marquez, Luis Alejandro Yanez; Gomes, Cesar Bauer; Belle, Cristiano; Dallagnol, Leandro Jose; de Araujo Filho, Jeronimo Vieira								Unveiling the structure and distribution of plant-parasitic nematode communities in soybean fields in southern of the Brazil								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF PLANT PATHOLOGY				160	2			457	468		10.1007/s10658-021-02256-1			JUN 2021	2021	Our study aimed to assess the structure and distribution of plant-parasitic nematodes in soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merr] in the south of Brazil. High taxonomical diversity was found, with records of 10 genera of plant-parasitic nematodes (PPNs), including important pests, such as Meloidogyne (mostly M. javanica with small esterase variability), Pratylenchus (mostly P. brachyurus) and Helicotylenchus spp. The Shannon-Weaver index (H-') ranged from 0 to 1.23 (mean = 0.37), whereas Pielou's evenness (J) ranged from 0 to 1 (mean = 0.51). The amount of PPNs (0 to 22,050 per 250 cm(3) soil, and 0 to 15,500 per 10 g roots), incidence and abundance for Meloidogyne (28.6%; 50 to 19,250 per 250 cm(3)), Pratylenchus (45.1%; 50 to 550 per 250 cm(3)), Helicotylenchus (91.2%; 50 to 9,150 per 250 cm(3)), Tylenchus (34.1%; 50 to 550 per 250 cm(3)), Xiphinema (33%; 50 to 250 per 250 cm(3)), Mesocriconema (15.4%; 50 to 2,000 per 250 cm(3)), Rotylenchus (8.8%; 50 to 1,900 per 250 cm(3)), Hemicycliophora (1.1%; 50 per 250 cm(3)), Discocriconemella (1.1%; 950 per 250 cm(3)) and Tylenchorhynchus (1.1%; 50 per 250 cm(3)) were related differently to the bioclimatic variables under analysis. Our findings provide an update for the status of PPNs in the south of Brazil and suggest important epidemiological issues linked to the management of these pests in the near future.		[Marquez, Luis Alejandro Yanez; Belle, Cristiano; Dallagnol, Leandro Jose; de Araujo Filho, Jeronimo Vieira] Univ Fed Pelotas, Eliseu Maciel Fac Agron, Crop Protect Dept, BR-96010900 Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [Gomes, Cesar Bauer] Embrapa Clima Temperado, Lab Phytopathol & Nematol, BR-96010971 Pelotas, RS, Brazil; [de Araujo Filho, Jeronimo Vieira] Univ Fed Pelotas, Eliseu Maciel Fac Agron, Crop Protect Dept, BR-96010900 Pelotas, RS, Brazil								6							Agronomy; Plant Sciences; Horticulture	WOS:000630856100001		
J	Li, Yanpei; Wang, Jiao; Shao, Ming'an								Assessment of earthworms as an indicator of soil degradation: A case-study on loess soils								LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT				32	8			2606	2617		10.1002/ldr.3928			MAY 15 2021	2021	Soil degradation restricts the development of agriculture, and the degree of soil degradation is related to land use type, and efficient evaluation methods are helpful for the timely implementation of remedial measures to ensure soil sustainability. Earthworms are directly affected by the deterioration of soil properties during the degradation process. The feasibility of using earthworms to assess soil degradation, however, still needs to be verified. In our Loess Plateau study, earthworm biomass, density, and diversity (Shannon-Wiener, species richness, and Pielou's evenness) were investigated under nine different land use types (natural woodland, shrubland and grassland; planted woodland, shrubland and grassland; and cropland, orchard, abandoned land) and we analyzed their relationships with soil degradation. Our results showed earthworm biomass, density, and diversity associated with a low degree of degradation were significantly higher than those associated with a high degree of degradation. Earthworms can comprehensively characterize the physicochemical properties and biological characteristics of soils under different land use types. Linear correlations showed a significant relationship between the soil degradation index and the earthworm indices, indicating that the latter could be used to effectively evaluate and represent the degree of degradation of soils on the Loess Plateau over a certain degradation range. Nevertheless, this evaluation method requires further validation before wider use.		[Li, Yanpei; Shao, Ming'an] Chinese Acad Sci & Minist Water Resources, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Yangling, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Li, Yanpei; Shao, Ming'an] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jiao; Shao, Ming'an] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Key Lab Ecosyst Network Observat & Modeling, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Shao, Ming'an] CAS Ctr Excellence Quaternary Sci & Global Change, Xian, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jiao] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Key Lab Ecosyst Network Observat & Modeling, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China								13							Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000630745700001		
J	Samraj, J. M.; Agnihotri, Meena								Impact of land use pattern and seasonality on butterfly diversity in a sub-tropical Terai arc landscape (TAL), Pantnagar, Uttarakhand (India)								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				62	2			301	310		10.1007/s42965-021-00150-9			JUN 2021	2021	Species diversity and richness of butterflies in habitats constituted by different land-use patterns were studied in the Terai region of Pantnagar for 2 years from Nov 2017 to Dec 2019. A total of 92 species of butterflies belonging to 66 genera and five families were documented from three different habitats viz., inhabited settlement, agricultural land and secondary forest. Family Nymphalidae (34.13%) dominated over Lycaenidae (28.88%), Pieridae (26.20%), Papilionidae (8.76%) and Hesperiidae (4.04%). Among the different species of butterflies, Pseudozizeeria maha was the most dominant butterfly with 6.09% relative abundance followed by Pieris canidia (5.20%), Eurema hecabe (4.86%), Ariadne merione (3.42%), Catopsilia pomona (3.21%) and Luthrodes pandava (3.01%). Diversity and evenness indices viz., Margalef's index (D-mg), Shannon diversity index (H') and Pielou's J revealed a greater diversity in undisturbed secondary forest rich in host and nectar plant than the habitat intervened with crop cultivation. Three-factorial ANOVA showed a significant variation in abundance of butterfly concerning months, site and butterfly families. Pearson's correlation showed the existence of a positive correlation between butterfly abundance and weather parameters viz., maximum temperature, morning and evening relative humidity and rainfall. The results obtained indicate that the Pantnagar region holds a splendid diversity of butterflies and the diversity is altered by different land-use pattern. Regular survey and monitoring of the region are suggested for conservation and documenting the changing biodiversity.		[Samraj, J. M.; Agnihotri, Meena] Govind Ballabh Pant Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Entomol, Udham Singh Nagar 263145, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Samraj, J. M.] Govind Ballabh Pant Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Entomol, Udham Singh Nagar 263145, Uttar Pradesh, India								0							Ecology	WOS:000620408900001		
J	Lee, Louis S. H.; Zhang, Hao; Jim, C. Y.								Serviceable tree volume: An alternative tool to assess ecosystem services provided by ornamental trees in urban forests								URBAN FORESTRY & URBAN GREENING				59						127003	10.1016/j.ufug.2021.127003			APR 2021	2021	Ornamental trees bearing outstanding flowers bring notable ecosystem services to cities. Existing research often treated ornamental trees as a sub-category of urban trees. To investigate the contributions of ornamental trees, this study aimed to: (1) assess their provision of ecosystem services; and (2) examine their ecological composition and diversity. Comprehensive tree survey in 93 public housing estates in Hong Kong identified 12,516 ornamental trees. To characterise the ability to provide ecosystem services, an index termed serviceable tree volume was devised. This innovative quantity aided the evaluation of ornamental trees by visual amenities, olfactory trait and ecological benefits while considering the compromise due to structural defects. The comprehensive tree survey showed a significant tendency of planting exotics for ornamental purposes. Most ornamentals could potentially deliver high-quality ecosystem services which were unfortunately restrained by prevailing very poor health conditions particularly attributed to structural defects on major branches. By relative importance value, several species dominated the ornamental tree inventory, namely Bauhinia ?Blakeana?, Delonix regia and Bombax ceiba. By incorporating serviceable tree volume in calculating relative importance value, the importance ranking of ornamental species was re-ordered. Using tree stem as the unit of analysis, Shannon-Wiener Diversity, Reciprocal Simpson and Pielou?s Evenness of the ornamental tree stock stood at 3.08, 14.73 and 0.74 respectively, and they were reduced when the three indices incorporated serviceable tree volume. Diverse native ornamentals could be planted extensively in the urban forest in tandem with the preservation of important exotic species.		[Lee, Louis S. H.; Zhang, Hao] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong, Fac Design & Environm, Chai Wan, Shing Tai Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Jim, C. Y.] Educ Univ Hong Kong, Dept Social Sci, Tai Po, Lo Ping Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Hao] Technol & Higher Educ Inst Hong Kong, Fac Design & Environm, Chai Wan, Shing Tai Rd, Hong Kong, Peoples R China								12							Plant Sciences; Environmental Studies; Forestry; Urban Studies	WOS:000632597500004		
J	Huo, Na; Zhao, Shiwei; Huang, Jinghua; Geng, Dezhou; Wang, Nan; Yang, Panpan								Seasonal Stabilities of Soil Nematode Communities and Their Relationships with Environmental Factors in Different Temperate Forest Types on the Chinese Loess Plateau								FORESTS				12	2					246	10.3390/f12020246			FEB 2021	2021	The bottom-up effects of vegetation have been documented to be strong drivers of the soil food web structure and functioning in temperate forests. However, how the forest type affects the stability of the soil food web is not well known. In the Ziwuling forest region of the Loess Plateau, we selected three typical forests, Pinus tabuliformis Carriere (PT), Betula platyphylla Sukaczev (BP), and Quercus liaotungensis Koidz. (QL), to investigate the soil nematode community characteristics in the dry (April) and rainy (August) season, and analyzed their relationships with the soil properties. The results showed that the characteristics of the soil nematode communities and their seasonal variations differed markedly among the forest types. Compared to P. tabuliformis (PT), the B. platyphylla (BP) and Q. liaotungensis (QL) forests had higher plant diversity and more easily decomposed litters, which were more effective for improving the soil resource availability, thus, leading to more beneficial effects on the soil nematode community. In both the dry and rainy season, the soil nematode abundance was the highest in the BP forest. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), Pielou's evenness index (J'), and nematode channel ratio index (NCR) were higher, while the Simpson dominance index (lambda) and plant parasite index (PPI) were lower, in the BP and QL forests compared with in the PT forest. From the dry to rainy season, the total nematode abundance and the abundance of fungivores, bacterivores, and omnivore-predators, significantly increased in the QL and PT forests, and the values of the Wasilewska index (WI), maturity index (MI), H', J', lambda, and NCR showed the most significant seasonal variability in the PT forest, which were mainly driven by changes in the soil labile C and N and the moisture content between the two seasons. Generally, the seasonal stability of the soil nematode communities was the highest in the BP forest and the poorest in the PT forest, probably due to variations in the plant diversity. Our results suggest the importance of tree species and diversity as bottom-up regulating factors of the soil food web structure, function, and seasonal stability, which has important implications for sustainable forest management in the Loess Plateau and other temperate regions.		[Huo, Na; Zhao, Shiwei; Geng, Dezhou; Wang, Nan] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Nat Resources & Environm, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Shiwei; Huang, Jinghua] Northwest A&F Univ, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Shiwei; Huang, Jinghua; Yang, Panpan] Chinese Acad Sci & Minist Water Resources, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Shiwei] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Nat Resources & Environm, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Shiwei] Northwest A&F Univ, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Shiwei] Chinese Acad Sci & Minist Water Resources, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								6							Forestry	WOS:000622530400001		
J	Bufebo, Belayneh; Elias, Eyasu; Getu, Emana								Abundance and diversity of soil invertebrate macro-fauna in different land uses at Shenkolla watershed, South Central Ethiopia								JOURNAL OF BASIC AND APPLIED ZOOLOGY				82	1					11	10.1186/s41936-021-00206-1			FEB 1 2021	2021	BackgroundLand use can exert a strong influence on the abundance, diversity, and community composition of soil macro-fauna. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of four land use types on the abundance and diversity of soil invertebrate macro-fauna communities. These land uses include forest land, grazing land, crop cultivated outfields, and homestead garden fields present at Shenkolla watershed, south central Ethiopia. Monolith sampling of soil macro-fauna was done according to the standard of Tropical Soils Biology and Fertility Institute (TSBF) procedure. Five sampling points were chosen in each land use type and small monolith (25 x 25 x 30cm) was dug out at 5-m interval along a transect with randomly positioned starting point, but perpendiculars to the slope. A total of 20 monoliths (4 treatments x5 replications) were taken across all the land use types. Sampling of SIMF was carried out in April 2019 where soil macro-faunas are known to be more active. To evaluate the SIMF community eight parameters were measured: Shannon-Wiener index, Simpson diversity index, Pielou's measure of evenness, Margalef's diversity index, the Number of Occurrence Index, Relative abundance, Density (individuals per square meter) of each taxon and density of all SIMF and Bray-Curtis similarity index. The data were further analyzed using ANOVA and a general linear model to determine the variation and the influence of land use type, respectively.ResultsIn general, 332 individuals, 10 orders, 12 families, and 15 species were identified, from the collected samples. There were significant differences (p <0.05) among the four land use types for SIMF except wireworm, spiders, and millipedes. Overall abundance and diversity were lowest in the crop cultivated outfields and highest in homestead garden fields and forest land. Bray-Curtis' similarity was highest between the sampled sites s16 and s19 with in the forest land, and lowest (2%) between sites s1 (crop cultivated out fields) and s14 (homestead garden fields).ConclusionThe results revealed that the diversity of SIMF was positively influenced by forest land and homestead garden fields and negatively influenced in grazing land and cultivated outfields. Therefore, maintenance of a continuous litter cover at the surface and application of a wide range of organic fertilizers (farmyard manure, household refuse, and compost) is very much critical to prevent the decrease in diversity of SIMF.		[Bufebo, Belayneh] Wachemo Univ, Dept Nat Resource Management, POB 667, Hosanna, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh; Elias, Eyasu] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Ctr Environm Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Getu, Emana] Addis Ababa Univ, Dept Zool, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh] Wachemo Univ, Dept Nat Resource Management, POB 667, Hosanna, Ethiopia; [Bufebo, Belayneh] Addis Ababa Univ, Coll Nat & Computat Sci, Ctr Environm Sci, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia								6							Biology	WOS:001009630400001		
J	Wang, Bai-Feng; Wu, Feng-Ci; Yin, Jun-Qi; Jiang, Zhi-Lei; Song, Xin-Yuan; Reddy, Gadi V. P.								Use of Taxonomic and Trait-Based Approaches to Evaluate the Effect of Bt maize Expressing Cry1Ie Protein on Non-Target Collembola: A Case Study in Northeast China								INSECTS				12	2					88	10.3390/insects12020088			FEB 2021	2021	Simple Summary Bt crops have been planted globally since the first commercial Bt maize was cultivated in the United States in 1996. Bt protein from Bt crops can be released to the soil and may potentially affect the non-target soil fauna. Collembola are one of the three most ubiquitous and abundant soil fauna, they have been widely used as indicators of environmental pollution, IE09S034 is a new cry1Ie maize breed independently developed by China, and Northeast China is the most important location for maize production in China. Therefore, this study aimed to clarify whether non-target soil Collembola were influenced by the cultivation of cry1Ie maize in Northeast China. Our results showed that maize variety had no significant effects on collembolan abundance, diversity, and morphological trait, indicating that two years cultivation of cry1Ie maize does not have a bad influence on Collembola in Northeast China. To evaluate the effect of Bt maize expressing Cry1Ie protein on non-target soil Collembola, a two-year field study was conducted in Northeast China. Bt maize line IE09S034 and its near isoline Zong 31 were selected as experimental crops; we investigated the collembolan community using both taxonomic and trait-based approaches, and elucidated the relationship between environmental variables and the collembolan community using redundancy analysis (RDA).The ANOVA results showed that maize variety neither had significant effect on the parameters based on taxonomic approach (abundance, species richness, Shannon-Wiener index, Pielou's evenness index), nor on the parameters based on trait-based approach (ocelli number, body length, pigmentation level, and furcula development) in either year. The results of RDA also showed that maize variety did not affect collembolan community significantly. These results suggest that two years cultivation of cry1Ie maize does not affect collembolan community in Northeast China.		[Wang, Bai-Feng; Wu, Feng-Ci; Yin, Jun-Qi; Jiang, Zhi-Lei; Song, Xin-Yuan] Jilin Acad Agr Sci, Agrobiotechnol Res Inst, Jilin Prov Key Lab Agr Biotechnol, Changchun 130033, Peoples R China; [Reddy, Gadi V. P.] USDA ARS, Southern Insect Management Res Unit, 141 Expt Stn Rd,POB 346, Stoneville, MS 38776 USA; [Song, Xin-Yuan] Jilin Acad Agr Sci, Agrobiotechnol Res Inst, Jilin Prov Key Lab Agr Biotechnol, Changchun 130033, Peoples R China								5							Entomology	WOS:000622642500001		
J	Zhao, Ruifeng; Zhang, Xiaoya; Zhang, Lihua; Wang, Yuanbo								Plant Diversity and Soil Properties at Different Wetland Restoration Stages along a Major River in the Arid Northwest of China								WETLANDS				41	1					13	10.1007/s13157-021-01412-x			JAN 31 2021	2021	Agricultural activity is widely recognized as one of the leading drivers of natural wetland loss in many parts of the world. The suitability of farmland abandonment as the wetland restoration has not been well studied in arid regions. The plant growth, community structure and soil property were examined in three farmlands abandoned for 2 (W2), 6 (W6) and 15 (W15) years and reference wetland (Wr) in the Zhangye National Wetland Park in Gansu province. The results showed that the plant abundance, soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, soil water content increased and pH value decreased along the wetland restoration stages. Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness index moved towards natural wetland with increasing time of farmland abandonment, the plant community composition of the three abandoned farmlands also changed from annual to perennial dominant species. The farmland abandonment is conducive to improve soil nutrients and quality. Soil and vegetation facilitated one another in the abandonment stages. Thus, farmland abandonment is rational for wetland restoration. The mechanism of interaction between plant and soil can be used to guide wetland restoration of abandoned farmland.		[Zhao, Ruifeng; Zhang, Xiaoya; Zhang, Lihua; Wang, Yuanbo] Northwest Normal Univ, Coll Geog & Environm Sci, Lanzhou 730070, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Ruifeng] Gansu Engn Res Ctr Land Utilizat & Comprehens Con, Lanzhou 730070, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Ruifeng] Northwest Normal Univ, Coll Geog & Environm Sci, Lanzhou 730070, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Ruifeng] Gansu Engn Res Ctr Land Utilizat & Comprehens Con, Lanzhou 730070, Peoples R China								3							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000617319000001		
J	Zhang, Qi-peng; Wang, Jian; Wang, Qian								Effects of abiotic factors on plant diversity and species distribution of alpine meadow plants								ECOLOGICAL INFORMATICS				61						101210	10.1016/j.ecoinf.2021.101210			MAR 2021	2021	The alpine meadow is a type of vegetation with significant ecological and economic values. Plant diversity and species distribution are affected by ecological environment. To study the influence of abiotic factors (topographic factors and soil chemical and physical properties), it can understand plant communities? formation and the adaptation of plants to abiotic factors. Here, we explored the influence of the abiotic factors on the plant diversity and species distribution through the investigation of alpine meadow vegetation and abiotic factors at the northeast Tibetan Plateau, the results of the laboratory experiments, and the representative difference analysis (RDA) to find the ordination differences. Our results revealed that 11 ordered abiotic factors explained the 25.5% of the distribution of the alpine meadow species. The slope, soil total nitrogen (STN), and soil organic matter (SOM) have a significant influence on the distribution of the alpine meadow species. According to the RDA analysis of the correlation between plant diversity and abiotic factors, the cumulative interpretation value of the four ordination axes was 39.0%. Slope and STN has a strong correlation with plant diversity, respectively. STN, soil total phosphorus (STP), soil total potassium (STK), and soil water content (SWC) has positive relationships with the plant diversity index, respectively, suggesting that those factors above mentioned are the main factors affecting the diversity of species in alpine meadows. Slope, aspect, and soil temperature (ST) has negative relationships with the Partrick index, Simpson?s diversity index, and Shannon-Wiener diversity index, indicating that with the slope increases, the plant diversity decreases, and the plant diversity also decrease at the sunward aspect. The soil has a more significant impact on the Pielou?s evenness index, but the topography has a weaker influence on the Pielou?s evenness index. The plant diversity and species distribution of alpine meadow in Tibet Plateau are affected by many abiotic factors. In our study, we found that slope and STN were the main factors affecting the plant diversity and species distribution in alpine meadows.		[Zhang, Qi-peng; Wang, Qian] Liaocheng Univ, Sch Environm & Planning, Liaocheng 252059, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jian] Nanjing Normal Univ, Sch Geog Sci, Nanjing 210023, Peoples R China; [Wang, Qian] Liaocheng Univ, Sch Environm & Planning, Liaocheng 252059, Shandong, Peoples R China								10							Ecology	WOS:000632605400004		
J	He, Yuhan; Zhao, Kangshun; Zhang, Huan; He, Liang; Niu, Yuan; Zhang, Min; Xu, Jun								Linking macrophyte community structure with food chain length: A case study in the largest freshwater lake in China and ecological restoration implications								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				123						107363	10.1016/j.ecolind.2021.107363			APR 2021	2021	Food chain length is a significant ecosystem index and it greatly affects ecosystem processes and their outcomes. In recent decades, determinants or indicators of FCL have been investigated in different ecological contexts, but few studies analyzed the relationships between macrophyte community structure and the food chain length of freshwater ecosystems despite the crucial role of macrophyte community in determining food web structure. This study investigated the influence of macrophyte community structure on food chain length by conducting a field survey in Lake Poyang, the largest freshwater lake in China. Plant volume inhabited (PVI), Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index were used to indicate macrophyte community structure. Our results suggested that intermediate levels of PVI and diversity (PVI 44% and diversity 0.61) with greater evenness could support longer food chain in sub-lakes of Lake Poyang. We proposed that macrophyte community structure indexes could be useful indicators in indicating food chain length in freshwater ecosystem. These novel findings also highlight that within suitable ranges of PVI and diversity, better restoration effect could be achieved by higher macrophyte evenness in lake management. Our findings provide new insights for the restoration and management of macrophytes in freshwater ecosystems.		[He, Yuhan; Zhao, Kangshun; Zhang, Huan; Xu, Jun] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol China, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China; [He, Liang] Minist Educ, Key Lab Lake Poyang Environm & Resource Utilizat, Nanchang 330031, Jiangxi, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yuan] Chinese Res Inst Environm Sci, Inst Lake Environm & Ecol, Natl Engn Lab Lake Pollut Control & Ecol Restorat, Beijing 100012, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Min] Huazhong Agr Univ, Hubei Prov Engn Lab Pond Aquaculture, Coll Fisheries, Freshwater Aquaculture Collaborat Innovat Ctr Hub, Wuhan 430070, Peoples R China; [He, Yuhan; Zhao, Kangshun] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Huan] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol China, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yuan] Chinese Res Inst Environm Sci, Inst Lake Environm & Ecol, Natl Engn Lab Lake Pollut Control & Ecol Restorat, Beijing 100012, Peoples R China								5							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000615942100004		
J	Toklu-Alicli, Benin; Balkis-Ozdelice, Neslihan; Durmus, Turgay; Balci, Muharrem								Relationship between environmental factors and zooplankton diversity in the Gulf of Bandirma (the Sea of Marmara)								BIOLOGIA				76	6			1727	1736		10.2478/s11756-020-00668-8			JUN 2021	2021	Zooplankton community and its relationship to environmental variables were investigated seasonally between autumn 2006 and summer 2008 in the Gulf of Bandirma (the Sea of Marmara). In the Gulf, we identified nine Copepoda, three Cladocera, one Hydrozoa, one Cydippida, Appendicularia, Bivalvia, Chaetognatha, Cirripedia, Decapoda, Echinodermata, Gastropoda, Polychaeta, Pisces larvae, and Pisces eggs at three sampling stations. Shannon-Weaver diversity index and Pielou's evenness value ranged between 0.00-2.72 and 0.00-1.00, respectively. The first two components of the redundancy analysis (RDA) explained 81.9% of the variance as the main factors (generally the longest arrows) affecting the spatial and temporal distributions of zooplankton in the Gulf of Bandirma, with dissolved oxygen (DO), nitrite+nitrate (NO3 + NO2-N) and phosphate (PO4-P). Liriope tetraphylla, Oithona nana, Paracalanus parvus, Penilia avirostris, Appendicularia and veliger larvae (Gastropoda) were positively related to DO and salinity, and negatively correlated with temperature, chlorophyll-a (Chl-a), Trophic State Index (Trix), PO4-P, and NO3 + NO2-N. According to Spearman's rank correlation analysis, there was a strong positive correlation between the number of zooplankton individuals and temperature, and the number of zooplankton individuals negatively correlated with salinity and Chl-a. In order to determine similarities among seasons in the samples, the Bray-Curtis similarity index was calculated using species diversity and abundance values, while Euclidean distances were calculated using ecological parameters. Overall, the diversity of zooplankton in the Gulf of Bandirma was higher in the first sampling year and decreased due to the effect of mucilage in the second sampling year.		[Toklu-Alicli, Benin; Balkis-Ozdelice, Neslihan; Durmus, Turgay; Balci, Muharrem] Istanbul Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Istanbul, Turkey; [Toklu-Alicli, Benin] Istanbul Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Istanbul, Turkey								6							Biology	WOS:000609070200003		
J	Nogueira, Joana Garrido; Teixeira, Amilcar; Varandas, Simone; Lopes-Lima, Manuel; Sousa, Ronaldo								Assessment of a terrestrial protected area for the conservation of freshwater biodiversity								AQUATIC CONSERVATION-MARINE AND FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS				31	3			520	530		10.1002/aqc.3502			MAR 2021	2021	Freshwater ecosystems are essential to human well-being and most have high biodiversity. However, this biodiversity has been suffering severe declines owing to the expansion of human activities. Protected areas (PAs) are essential for biodiversity conservation and have proved to be successful in stopping species extirpation if managed properly. Unfortunately, they are usually focused on terrestrial biodiversity, leaving freshwater ecosystems aside. The main goal of this study was to determine the influence of a PA (Montesinho Natural Park (MNP), Portugal) on freshwater biodiversity. Aquatic macroinvertebrates and fishes were surveyed, and biodiversity (richness, abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and Pielou's evenness) and water quality (IASPT) indices were calculated inside, at the periphery and outside the MNP. Results showed that the PA does not affect positively either water quality or the two faunal groups monitored. Macroinvertebrate communities were not influenced by the PA; however, the abundance of pearl mussel Margaritifera margaritifera was significantly higher and size was significantly lower inside the MNP. The richness and abundance of fish communities were significantly higher outside the MNP, except for trout Salmo trutta abundance which was higher inside the MNP. Given these results, the MNP does not guarantee the safeguard of overall aquatic biodiversity and habitats and we propose an extension of MNP to downstream areas in order to increase the number of species (mostly cyprinids) under legal protection. This work demonstrates that terrestrial PA planning and management should also consider aquatic biodiversity to achieve successful conservation.		[Nogueira, Joana Garrido; Sousa, Ronaldo] Univ Minho, Dept Biol, CBMA Ctr Mol & Environm Biol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal; [Nogueira, Joana Garrido; Lopes-Lima, Manuel] Univ Porto, CIBIO InBIO Res Ctr Biodivers & Genet Resources, Vairao, Portugal; [Teixeira, Amilcar] Inst Politecn Braganca, Ctr Invest Montanha CIMO, Braganca, Portugal; [Varandas, Simone] Univ Tras Os Montes & Alto Douro, CITAB UTAD Ctr Res & Technol Agroenvironm & Biol, Vila Real, Portugal; [Nogueira, Joana Garrido] Univ Minho, Dept Biol, CBMA Ctr Mol & Environm Biol, Campus Gualtar, P-4710057 Braga, Portugal								16							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000606785500001		
J	Aziz, Md. Saifullah Bin; Hasan, Neaz A.; Mondol, Md. Mostafizur Rahman; Alam, Md. Mehedi; Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul								Decline in fish species diversity due to climatic and anthropogenic factors in Hakaluki Haor, an ecologically critical wetland in northeast Bangladesh								HELIYON				7	1					e05861	10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e05861			JAN 2021	2021	This study evaluates changes in fish species diversity over time in Hakaluki Haor, an ecologically critical wetland in Bangladesh, and the factors affecting this diversity. Fish species diversity data were collected from fishers using participatory rural appraisal tools and the change in the fish species diversity was determined using Shannon-Wiener, Margalef's Richness and Pielou's Evenness indices. Principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted with a dataset of 150 fishers survey to characterize the major factors responsible for the reduction of fish species diversity. Out of 63 fish species, 83% of them were under the available category in 2008 which decreased to 51% in 2018. Fish species diversity indices for all 12 taxonomic orders in 2008 declined remarkably in 2018. The first PCA (climatic change) responsible for the reduced fish species diversity explained 24.05% of the variance and consisted of erratic rainfall (positive correlation coefficient 0.680), heavy rainfall (-0.544), temperature fluctuation (0.561), and beel siltation (0.503). The second PCA was anthropogenic activity, including the use of harmful fishing gear (0.702), application of urea to harvest fish (0.673), drying beels annually (0.531), and overfishing (0.513). Finally, the third PCA was loaded with the fishermen age (0.719), education (-0.767), and fishing experience (0.695) of the fishers. Deepening of beels could enhance dry season water availability and shelter the fish. Imposing fisheries regulations to reduce human activities is inevitable to sustain haor fisheries.		[Aziz, Md. Saifullah Bin; Mondol, Md. Mostafizur Rahman] Univ Rajshahi, Dept Fisheries, Rajshahi, Bangladesh; [Hasan, Neaz A.; Alam, Md. Mehedi; Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul] Bangladesh Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Mymensingh, Bangladesh; [Haque, Mohammad Mahfujul] Bangladesh Agr Univ, Dept Aquaculture, Mymensingh, Bangladesh								31							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000618042500005		
J	Mohammadi, Khatere; Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar; Razmjou, Jabraeil; Naseri, Bahram								Evaluation of the effect of strip intercropping green bean/garlic on the control of <i>Tetranychus urticae</i> in the field								EXPERIMENTAL AND APPLIED ACAROLOGY				83	2			183	195		10.1007/s10493-020-00583-2			FEB 2021	2021	In this study, the effect of strip intercropping green bean (GB), Phaseolus vulgaris L., with garlic (G), Allium sativum L., in three row ratios (3GB:5G, 3GB:8G and 3GB:11G) was assessed on two-spotted spider mite (TSSM), Tetranychus urticae Koch, compared with green bean sole crop over two growing seasons, in 2017 and 2018. The results indicated that intercrops reduced the densities of T. urticae eggs and mobile forms on the vegetative growth, the flowering, and the bean expansion stages of green bean plants compared with sole crop. In this study, seven predators of T. urticae including Stethorus gilvifrons (Mulsant), Orius niger (Wolff), Neoseiulus zwoelferi (Dosse), Chrysoperla carnea (Stephens), Geocoris punctipes (Say), Scolothrips sexmaculatus Pergande, and Nabis pseudoferus (Remane) were collected on TSSM-infested green bean plants during the two growing seasons. Among them, S. gilvifrons and O. niger were the main predators of TSSM on green bean plants in the two growing seasons. Furthermore, the densities of O. niger were significantly higher in intercrops on the vegetative growth and the flowering stages of green bean compared with sole crop, whereas no significant difference was observed in the densities of S. gilvifrons between intercrops and sole crop in 2017 and 2018. Moreover, the values of the Shannon diversity index (H ') and Pielou's evenness index (J ') for the composition of TSSM predators were greater in the three intercrops compared with sole crop for the entire growing seasons 2017/2018. On the other hand, the land equivalent ratio (LER), which is used to assess the yield benefit in intercrops, was greater than one in intercrops, especially in the 3GB:5G ratio (1.29 in 2017 and 1.40 in 2018). These results indicated that strip intercropping green bean with garlic could be effective in the control of T. urticae in green bean fields.		[Mohammadi, Khatere; Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar; Razmjou, Jabraeil; Naseri, Bahram] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran; [Fathi, Seyed Ali Asghar] Univ Mohaghegh Ardabili, Dept Plant Protect, Ardebil, Iran								8							Entomology	WOS:000604254500001		
J	Mammeri, I.; Zouggaghe, F.; Krika, A.								BENTHIC MACROINVERTEBRATE ASSEMBLAGES IN THE MAIN CONFLUENCES OF THE KEBIR-RHUMEL WADI (NORTHEAST ALGERIA)								VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT				71	1			41	54					2021	2021	Macroinvertebrate assemblages in Kebi-Rhumel, one of the largest watersheds in Algeria, are insufficiently documented. During spring, summer and autumn 2018, macro-benthos and water samples were collected and treated out at 16 stations located in the main confluence area along the Kebir-Rhumel wadi. One of the main objectives of the present work was to investigate diversity and distribution of benthic macroinvertebrates species according to environmental characteristics in this catchment area. The pH, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, ammonia, nitrite and phosphate were significantly different (P value < 0.05) between the sampling sites. The conductivity and nutrient concentrations were higher in the upstream part of the Kebir-Rhumel catchment, while dissolved oxygen decreased, indicating that Rhumel wadi is more polluted. A total of 16,069 individuals and 129 taxa, belonging to 77 families in 15 orders, were identified. Mean values of taxon richness, Shannon-Wiener (1949), Pielou's (1966) evenness, Margalef (1958) and Simpson (1949) indices indicate that Kebir wadi and their tributaries supported a more macro-benthos diversity than Rhumel wadi. The species composition and the EPT index (Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera) showed the occurrence of pollution-sensitive macro-benthos groups in Kebir wadi, while the Rhumel wadi was mainly characterized by pollution-tolerant taxa, indicating anthropogenic disturbance and habitat degradation, which is evident by the diagnosis of the physicochemical water quality at Kebir-Rhumel wadi. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that altitude, conductivity, dissolved oxygen and nitrate were found to be the primary factors affecting the communities structure of benthic macroinvertebrates in the study area.		[Mammeri, I.] Univ Mohamed Seddik BenYahia, Fac Sci Nat & Vie, Dept Sci Environm & Sci Agron, Jijel 18000, Algeria; [Zouggaghe, F.] Univ Akli Mohand Oulhadj, Fac Sci Nat & Vie & Sci Terre, Dept Sci Nat & Vie, Bouira 10000, Algeria; [Krika, A.] Univ Mohamed Seddik BenYahia, Lab biotechnol Environm & St, Jijel 18000, Algeria; [Mammeri, I.] Univ Mohamed Seddik BenYahia, Fac Sci Nat & Vie, Dept Sci Environm & Sci Agron, Jijel 18000, Algeria								0							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000936492700006		
J	Tao, J.; Chen, J.; Du, S. Y.; Chen, X.; Li, S. Y.; Zhou, J.								SOIL ORGANISM DIVERSITY AND FUNCTIONS IN PLASTIC SHED AND OPEN FIELD SOILS UNDER DIFFERENT CULTIVATION METHODS								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				19	3			2133	2150		10.15666/aeer/1903_21332150			2021	2021	The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of four different cropping management practices in plastic shed soils and open-field soils under organic cultivation or conventional cultivation on soil biodiversity and functions. Soils under plastic sheds and open-field were sampled in Beijing, China, in areas where organic cultivation had been conducted for 5 years and conventional cultivation had also been employed. The results showed that plastic shed production resulted in lower soil bacterial richness and diversity than open-field but higher soil mesofaunal Shannon diversity and Pielou's species evenness indexes. Plastic shed production decreased soil urease and phosphate activities compared to open-field under conventional cultivation. Organic cultivation resulted in higher soil urease, phosphatase and catalase activities than conventional cultivation except for soil urease activity in open soil. Plastic shed soils exhibited significantly higher soil electric conductivity (EC) and NO3-N contents than open-field soils only under conventional cultivation. By contrast, organic cultivation decreased soil EC and nitrate contents compared to conventional cultivation in plastic shed soils. Organic cultivation resulted in higher soil bacterial OTU, Shannon diversity, Chaol and ACE indexes than conventional cultivation, but significant differences were observed in the open-field soils.		[Tao, J.; Du, S. Y.; Chen, X.; Li, S. Y.; Zhou, J.] Beijing Normal Univ, Key Lab Environm Changes & Nat Disaster, Minist Educ, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Chen, J.] Yancheng Inst Technol, Sch Environm Sci & Engn, Key Lab Ecol & Pollut Control Coastal Wetlands En, Yancheng 224051, Peoples R China; [Tao, J.; Du, S. Y.; Chen, X.; Li, S. Y.; Zhou, J.] Beijing Normal Univ, Fac Geog Sci, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Tao, J.] Beijing Normal Univ, Key Lab Environm Changes & Nat Disaster, Minist Educ, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China; [Tao, J.] Beijing Normal Univ, Fac Geog Sci, Beijing 100875, Peoples R China								1							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000656877100034		
J	Li, Yanran; Yu, Zhengda; Ji, Shuping; Meng, Jiao; Kong, Qiang; Wang, Renqing; Liu, Jian								Diverse drivers of phytoplankton dynamics in different phyla across the annual cycle in a freshwater lake								JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY				36	1			13	29		10.1080/02705060.2020.1868586			JAN 1 2021	2021	An understanding of the annual variations in the phytoplankton community in freshwater lakes, and of the drivers responsible for these variations, is essential for lake management. In this study we collected and analyzed seasonal samples of phytoplankton and assessed environmental variables in Nansi Lake from 2011 to 2015, in order to identify the seasonal dynamics of the phytoplankton community and the main drivers in each phylum. The results showed that phytoplankton diversity in Nansi Lake followed annual cycles, which were interrupted by a water diversion in 2013. The disruption of equilibrium was clearly demonstrated by the Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, and Simpson's dominance index, whereas the species richness and abundance showed resilience, maintaining regular annual cycles. The dominant species were frequently Synedra acus Kutz (Bacillariophyta), Closterium gracile Breb (Chlorophyta), and Scenedesmus quadricauda Breb (Chlorophyta) in summer and autumn. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) analysis suggested that the phytoplankton was most widely distributed in summer, when conditions were more conducive to phytoplankton growth and reproduction. Redundancy analysis (RDA) indicated that the main drivers for the phytoplankton community varied in different taxonomic units. Specifically, the NP ratio and permanganate index (CODMn) had significant effects on Chlorophyta, whereas pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), and transparency significantly influenced Bacillariophyta. This study highlights the importance of seasonal phytoplankton succession and the need for identification of the main drivers in each phylum in order to achieve more effective control of phytoplankton blooms in freshwater lakes.		[Li, Yanran; Ji, Shuping; Liu, Jian] Shandong Univ, Environm Res Inst, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China; [Yu, Zhengda] Qingdao Univ, Coll Environm Sci & Engn, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Meng, Jiao; Kong, Qiang] Shandong Normal Univ, Coll Geog & Environm, Jinan, Peoples R China; [Wang, Renqing] Shandong Univ, Sch Life Sci, Qingdao, Peoples R China; [Liu, Jian] Shandong Univ, Environm Res Inst, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China								6							Ecology; Limnology	WOS:000641733900001		
J	Kosari, S.; Nadushan, Mousavi R.; Fatemi, M. R.; Khanghah, Ejlali K.; Mashinchian, A.								Macrobenthos as bioindicator of ecological status in the Yekshabe creek-estuary, Persian Gulf								IRANIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES SCIENCES				20	2			514	528		10.22092/ijfs.2021.123874			2021	2021	The present study was conducted with the aim of identification of macrobenthos in the Yekshabe estuary in Persian Gulf. Sampling of macrobenthos was performed from spring 2015 for one year. It was carried out seasonally by the Van Veen Grab (0.04 m(2)) at four stations, with three replications. The identified macrobenthos belonged to 51 families, 70 genera, 80 species, 4 classes (including Polychaeta, Malacostraca, Bivalvia, Gastropoda) and 5 Phyla. The average total density of macrobenthos was 760 +/- 614 per square meter. The most frequently observed classes of macrobenthos belonged to Polychaeta (67.8%), Malacostraca (18.5%), Bivalvia (11.6%) and Gastropoda (1.2%), respectively. According to the results of the Kruskal-Wallis test, there was no significant difference between the macrobenthos classes among the different sampling stations. The highest values of the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity (3.07) and the Margalef's richness index (4.66) were observed in spring, whereas the highest value of the Pielou's evenness index (0.95) was observed in autumn. The values of all indices at station 4 were the highest as compared to those of the others. The results of ANOVA test showed that the mean values of the indices were significantly different (p<0.05) in different seasons, whereas the mean values were not significantly different at stations		[Kosari, S.; Fatemi, M. R.; Mashinchian, A.] Islamic Azad Univ, Fac Nat Resources & Environm, Dept Marine Sci, Sci & Res Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Nadushan, Mousavi R.] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Tehran North Branch, Tehran, Iran; [Khanghah, Ejlali K.] Agr Res Educ & Extens Org AREEO, Iranian Fisheries Sci Res Inst IFSRI, Persian Gulf & Oman Sea Ecol Res Ctr, Bandar Abbas, Iran; [Nadushan, Mousavi R.] Islamic Azad Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Tehran North Branch, Tehran, Iran								8							Fisheries	WOS:000640800500006		
J	Pandit, D. N.; Zulfahmi, I; Sumon, K. A.; Priyadarshi, A.								Distribution and Diversity of Zooplankton with the Environmental Factors in some Lentic Water bodies from Bihar, INDIA								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY & DEVELOPMENT				36	1			30	45					2021	2021	Freshwater ecosystems harbour zooplankton that fills as a significant part of the food chain of water bodies. Tragically, these ecosystems and diversity therein are compromised by a lot environmental pressure and pollution. An investigation was led from January 2018 to December 2019 to examine variation in zooplankton with the physicochemical profiles of Katira pond and Surya Mandir pond, Arrah keeping standard methods. Observations showed that during summer season water temperature, total alkalinity, hardness and chloride were observed more during summer season followed by the rainy , post-rainy and rainy season but a reverse pattern was observed for pH, dissolved oxygen, nitrate and sulfate. The water temperature demonstrated a positive relationship with total alkalinity, hardness and chloride whereas a negative correlation with pH, dissolved oxygen, nitrate and sulfate. 43 genera of zooplankton together with 15 rotifers, 10 protozoa, 9 cladocerans, 6 copepods and 3 ostracods were related to a numerical density from 1 to 538unit/L. The density of zooplankton was more distinguished throughout the colder time followed by summer, pre-rainy and rainy seasons. Zooplankton density showed a positive relationship with pH, dissolved oxygen, nitrate and sulfate however a negative relationship with water temperature, chloride, total alkalinity and hardness. Statistical analysis inferred critical contrasts in the spatial variation over physicochemical parameters (excluding nitrate), zooplankton groupings and biodiversity indices (excluding Simpson index). The observed estimates of the Shannon-Weiner index, Margalef Richness Index, Pielou's Evenness Index and Simpson index showed moderate to high diversity of zooplankton and moderately polluted conditions of these ponds.		[Pandit, D. N.; Priyadarshi, A.] Veer Kunwar Singh Univ, Dept Zool, Arrah 802301, India; [Zulfahmi, I] Ar Raniry State Islamic Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, Banda Aceh, Indonesia; [Sumon, K. A.] Bangladesh Agr Univ, Dept Fisheries Management, Mymensingh 2202, Bangladesh; [Pandit, D. N.] Veer Kunwar Singh Univ, Dept Zool, Arrah 802301, India								0							Ecology	WOS:000621633900003		
J	Mrozinska, Sandra; Kapusta, Przemyslaw; Gosiewski, Tomasz; Sroka-Oleksiak, Agnieszka; Ludwig-Slomczynska, Agnieszka H.; Matejko, Bartlomiej; Kiec-Wilk, Beata; Bulanda, Malgorzata; Malecki, Maciej T.; Wolkow, Pawel P.; Klupa, Tomasz								The Gut Microbiota Profile According to Glycemic Control in Type 1 Diabetes Patients Treated with Personal Insulin Pumps								MICROORGANISMS				9	1					155	10.3390/microorganisms9010155			JAN 2021	2021	Recently, several studies explored associations between type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and microbiota. The aim of our study was to assess the colonic microbiota structure according to the metabolic control in T1DM patients treated with insulin pumps. We studied 89 T1DM patients (50.6% women) at the median age of 25 (IQR, 22-29) years. Pielou's evenness (p = 0.02), and Shannon's (p = 0.04) and Simpson's diversity indexes (p = 0.01), were higher in patients with glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) >= 53 mmol/mol (7%). There were no differences in beta diversity between groups. A linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) algorithm showed that one family (Ruminococcaceae) was enriched in patients with HbA1c < 53 mmol/mol, whereas one family (Streptococcaceae) and four species (Ruminococcus torques, unclassified species of Lactococcus, Eubacteroim dolichum, and Coprobacillus cateniformis) were enriched in patients with HbA1c >= 53 mmol/mol. We found that at class level, the following pathways according to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes were enriched in patients with HbA1c < 53 mmol/mol: bacterial motility proteins, secretion system, bacterial secretion system, ribosome biogenesis, translation proteins, and lipid biosynthesis, whereas in patients with HbA1c >= 53 mmol/mol, the galactose metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, phosphotransferase system, fructose, and mannose metabolism were enriched. Observed differences in alpha diversity, metabolic pathways, and associations between bacteria and HbA1c in colonic flora need further investigation.		[Mrozinska, Sandra; Matejko, Bartlomiej; Kiec-Wilk, Beata; Malecki, Maciej T.; Klupa, Tomasz] Jagiellonian Univ Med Coll, Fac Med, Dept Metab Dis, 2 Jakubowskiego St, PL-30688 Krakow, Poland; [Mrozinska, Sandra; Matejko, Bartlomiej; Kiec-Wilk, Beata; Malecki, Maciej T.; Klupa, Tomasz] Univ Hosp, Dept Metab Dis, 2 Jakubowskiego St, PL-30688 Krakow, Poland; [Kapusta, Przemyslaw; Ludwig-Slomczynska, Agnieszka H.; Wolkow, Pawel P.] Jagiellonian Univ Med Coll, Ctr Med Genom OMICRON, 7c Kopernika St, PL-31034 Krakow, Poland; [Gosiewski, Tomasz; Sroka-Oleksiak, Agnieszka; Bulanda, Malgorzata] Jagiellonian Univ Med Coll, Fac Med, Dept Microbiol, 18 Czysta St, PL-31121 Krakow, Poland; [Klupa, Tomasz] Jagiellonian Univ Med Coll, Fac Med, Dept Metab Dis, 2 Jakubowskiego St, PL-30688 Krakow, Poland; [Klupa, Tomasz] Univ Hosp, Dept Metab Dis, 2 Jakubowskiego St, PL-30688 Krakow, Poland								14							Microbiology	WOS:000610580400001		
J	Gui, Jiang; Wei, Yuqiu; Sun, Jun; Le, Fengfeng; Cai, Yuming; Ning, Xiuren								Summer phytoplankton assemblages and carbon biomass in the northern south China sea								CONTINENTAL SHELF RESEARCH				210						104276	10.1016/j.csr.2020.104276			DEC 26 2020	2020	Phytoplankton assemblage composition, abundance, carbon biomass and distribution were studied in summer 2004 in the northern South China Sea (NSCS; 18 degrees-22 degrees N, 110 degrees-117 degrees E). This is the first report of natural phyto-plankton assemblages which were analyzed by Utermodhl method and their biovolume conversion carbon biomass in the NSCS. A taxa of phytoplankton was identified, which belong to 4 classes and 76 genera, and mainly composed of Bacillariophyceae. Most of them belong to nanophytoplankton (Equivalent Sphere Diameter is 10-15 mu m). Associated phytoplankton, with a share of 3% UPA (Utermodhl phytoplankton assemblage cell abundance), primarily consisted of Dinophyceae. Chrysophyceae and Cyanophyceae occurred in appreciable amounts only at upper layers waters in the NSCS. Combined the UPC (Utermodhl phytoplankton carbon) with PPC (picophytoplankton carbon) into the BPC (bulk phytoplankton carbon biomass), it ranged from 0.117 to 1467.172 mu g C L-1, its average was 54.848 +/- 197.578 mu g C L-1. The ratios of PPC contribution to BPC ranged from 0.001% to 6.567%, its average was 0.667 +/- 1.215%. This indicates that picophytoplankton contribution to phytoplankton carbon pool is much low than that of chlorophyll a partitioning. Two carbon biomass provinces, one was higher biomass province along continental surface and bottom layers, and the other one was lower biomass province in open sea waters, were clearly discerned along the isoline of 20 mu g C L-1. The calculated budget amount BPC pool in the NSCS was 1.21 x 10(4) tC. The calculated Carbon: Chlorophyll a ratio (C: Chl a) in study area ranged from 0.21 to 217.648, its average was 37.31 +/- 46.53. Several typical phytoplankton assemblages can be discerned based on Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Pielou's evenness and C: Chl a. Examination of phytoplankton abundances, biomass and environmental factors by multivariate techniques PCA (Principal Component Analysis) suggests BPC distribution in the NSCS was mainly controlled by salinity at Section along PRE (Pearl River estuary) to Dongsha Islands, and nitrate concentration at Section along the Yangjiang to Zhongsha Islands. The keystone phytoplankton species in the NSCS were mainly composed of large or chain form Bacillariophyceae, such as Pseudo-nitzschia delicatissima, Chaetoceros spp. and Asterionellopsis glacialis, and some Dinophyceae also take an important role in the NSCS, such as Gyrodinium spirale and Prorocentrum dentatum. In addition, the features of phytoplankton distribution were according to functional morphology.		[Gui, Jiang] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Res Ctr Indian Ocean Ecosyst, Tianjin 300457, Peoples R China; [Sun, Jun] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Coll Marine Sci & Technol, Wuhan 43007, Peoples R China; [Wei, Yuqiu] Shandong Univ, Inst Marine Sci & Technol, 72 Binhai Rd, Qingdao 266200, Peoples R China; [Le, Fengfeng; Cai, Yuming; Ning, Xiuren] Minist Nat Resource, Inst Oceanog 2, Hangzhou 310012, Peoples R China; [Sun, Jun] China Univ Geosci Wuhan, Coll Marine Sci & Technol, Wuhan 43007, Peoples R China								9							Oceanography	WOS:000592501300002		
J	Mahadik, Shashibhushan B.; Godase, Dadasaheb G.; Patil, Supriya M.; Pisal, Srushti, V; Jadhav, Prakash S.; Warake, Sarita B.								REANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF URBANIZATION ON BIRD SPECIES DIVERSITY AROUND AMRAVATI								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL AND STATISTICAL SCIENCES				16	2			509	517					DEC 2020	2020	This paper analyzes the impact of urbanization on the diversity of bird species near the city of Amravati, India. The secondary data used for analysis consist of counts of the bird species sampled over the four stages along an urbanization gradient, namely, the rural forest area, peri-urban area, suburban area, and urban area. Exploratory data analysis and analysis of variance show that the urbanization significantly impacts the diversity of bird species in the region. The richness of species decreases with an increasing level of urbanization while the evenness in the urban area is substantially lower than that in other urbanization stages. The overall diversity significantly weakens with the higher stage of urbanization. The species in the region can be classified into notably different groups according to their abundance distribution along an urbanization gradient. The comfort zone of most of the species is the rural forest area. However, some species have adapted themselves to the urbanization to the extent that their comfort zones are the higher urbanization stages.		[Mahadik, Shashibhushan B.; Godase, Dadasaheb G.; Patil, Supriya M.; Pisal, Srushti, V; Jadhav, Prakash S.; Warake, Sarita B.] Shivaji Univ, Dept Stat, Kolhapur 416004, Maharashtra, India; [Godase, Dadasaheb G.] Shivaji Univ, Dept Stat, Kolhapur 416004, Maharashtra, India								2							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000600021000003		
J	Kumar, Rahul; Saikia, Purabi								Population structure and regeneration status of <i>Shorea robusta</i> and associated trees in Sal forests of Ranchi, Eastern India								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				62	1			34	51		10.1007/s42965-020-00121-6			MAR 2021	2021	The present study was aimed to study the detailed population structure of Shorea robusta and its four dominant associated tree species (Diospyros melanoxylon, Buchanania cochinchinensis, Madhuca longifolia, and Butea monosperma) in Sal forests of Ranchi, Eastern India. In addition, the regeneration status of all recorded tree species and anthropogenic disturbance of Sal forests were also studied. Girth class distribution showed a reverse J-shaped population curve in the present study, and there was a decline in tree density with an increase in girth class, and mature trees with higher girth (> 120 cm) were very few (9.30%), that signifies the ongoing natural regeneration as well as both natural and anthropogenic disturbances within the studied Sal forest stands. Out of the 103 recorded tree species, 50 species (48.54%) had shown the total absence of regeneration (no regeneration), while 23 species each (22.33%) showed poor and good regeneration, and rest 07 species (6.80%) showed fair regeneration in the studied Sal forests stand. On the other hand, the maximum studied Sal forest stands of Ranchi (42.39%) had shown fair regeneration of S. robusta followed by good regenerating forests (36.96%), and 17.39% forests showed no regeneration. Disturbance index had a weak statistically significant negative correlation with density (ind. ha(-1)) (r = - 0.20; P < 0.05), and tree basal area (m(2) ha(-1)) (r = - 0.19; P < 0.05), while, it had a weak statistically significant positive correlation with Pielou's evenness index (r = 0.19; P < 0.05). The growth, survival, and reproductive potential of all tree species will be at risk in the near future if the present trend of anthropogenic pressure continues. Thus, it is clear that protection from grazing and other anthropogenic disturbances are the foremost requirements for the conservation and management of Sal forests in Ranchi, Eastern India.		[Kumar, Rahul; Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India; [Saikia, Purabi] Cent Univ Jharkhand, Dept Environm Sci, Ranchi 835205, Jharkhand, India								6							Ecology	WOS:000591216400001		
J	Feye, Kristina M.; Swaggerty, Christina L.; Kogut, Michael H.; Ricke, Steven C.; Piva, Andrea; Grilli, Ester								The biological effects of microencapsulated organic acids and botanicals induces tissue-specific and dose-dependent changes to the <i>Gallus gallus</i> microbiota								BMC MICROBIOLOGY				20	1					332	10.1186/s12866-020-02001-4			NOV 2 2020	2020	Background Microencapsulated organic acids and botanicals have the potential to develop into important tools for the poultry industry. A blend of organic acids and botanicals (AviPlus (R) P) has previously shown to reduce Salmonella and Campylobacter in chickens; however, changes to the microbiota of the jejunum and ileum have not been evaluated. Microbiota diversity is linked to, but not correlated with, the efficacy of natural products; therefore, understanding the effects on the microbiota is necessary for evaluating their potential as an antibiotic alternative. Results Ileal and jejunal segments from control and supplement-fed chickens (300 and 500 g/metric ton [MT]) were subjected to alpha diversity analysis including Shannon's diversity and Pielou's Evenness. In both analytics, the diversity in the ileum was significantly decreased compared to the jejunum irrespective of treatment. Similarly, beta diversity metrics including Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index and Weighted Unifrac Distance Matrix, were significant (Q < 0.05) for both tissue and treatments comparisons. Alpha and beta diversity analytics indicated compartmentalization effects between the ileum and jejunum. Additionally, analysis of communities in the microbiota (ANCOM) analysis showed Lactobacilliaceae predominated the total operational taxonomic units (OTU), with a stepwise increase from 53% in the no treatment control (NTC) to 56% in the 300 g/MT and 67% in the 500 g/MT group. Staphylococcaceae were 2% in NTC and 2 and 0% in 300 and 500 g/MT groups. Enterobacteriaceae decreased in the 500 g/MT (31%) and increased in the 300 g/MT (37%) compared to the NTC (35%). Aerococcaceae was 0% for both doses and 7% in NTC. Ruminococcaceae were 0% in NTC and 2 and 1% in the 300 and 500 g/MT. These changes in the microbial consortia were statistically (Q < 0.05) associated with treatment groups in the jejunum that were not observed in the ileum. Least discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSE) indicated different changes directly corresponding to treatment. Enterobacteriaceae demonstrated a stepwise decrease (from NTC onward) while Clostridiaceae, were significantly increased in the 500 g/MT compared to NTC and 300 g/MT (P < 0.05). Conclusion The bioactive site for the microencapsulated blend of organic acids and botanicals was the jejunum, and dietary inclusion enhanced the GIT microbiota and may be a viable antibiotic alternative for the poultry industry.		[Feye, Kristina M.; Swaggerty, Christina L.; Kogut, Michael H.] ARS, USDA, Southern Plains Agr Res Serv, 2881 F&B Rd, College Stn, TX 77845 USA; [Ricke, Steven C.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Anim & Dairy Sci, Meat Sci Anim Biol Discovery Program, Madison, WI USA; [Piva, Andrea; Grilli, Ester] Univ Bologna, DIMEVET, Bologna, Italy; [Piva, Andrea] Vetagro SpA, Reggio Emilia, Italy; [Grilli, Ester] Vetagro Inc, Chicago, IL USA; [Swaggerty, Christina L.] ARS, USDA, Southern Plains Agr Res Serv, 2881 F&B Rd, College Stn, TX 77845 USA								8							Microbiology	WOS:000588320700002		
J	Kopij, Grzegorz								Changes in the structure of avian community along a moisture gradient in an urbanized tropical riparian forest								POLISH JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				68	3			251	262		10.3161/15052249PJE2020.68.3.006			NOV 2020	2020	In larger river valleys of southern Africa, riparian forests are among the main vegetation types. The forests are regarded as ones of the most diverse and distinct terrestrial habitats on earth. They also play a crucial role in wildlife conservation as corridors and refugia for wildlife. It is hypothesized that the closer to the river bank, the higher the species diversity, while population densities may increase with the increase of the distance from the river bank. In 2014, quantitative studies (by means of the mapping method) on avian community breeding in such forest on Zambezi River in Katima Mulilo were undertaken to measure this gradient. Four plots were designed along an increasing distance from the river bank in this forest. In terms of the number of species, there was a significant gradual decrease with the increasing distance from the bank (from 91 to 54 species). The number of breeding pairs per 100 ha increased with the moisture gradient (from 222 to 677). Shannon's (H') and Simpson's (D) indices were higher in the two plots closer to the bank river (H'= 3.44-3.85; D = 0.97-0.99), than in the two remaining plots (H' = 3.13-3.15; D = 0.92-0.93). Also the Pielou's Evenness Index was higher in two plots closer to the bank (J' = 0.84-0.85 vs. 0.77-0.78). The proportion of granivores in the avian community declined along the moisture gradient, while that of insectivores and frugivores - increased. These gradual changes can be linked to a parallel gradual changes of the amount of fruits and invertebrates.		[Kopij, Grzegorz] Wroclaw Univ Environm & Life Sci, Dept Vertebrate Ecol, Kozuchowska 5b, PL-51631 Wroclaw, Poland; [Kopij, Grzegorz] Wroclaw Univ Environm & Life Sci, Dept Vertebrate Ecol, Kozuchowska 5b, PL-51631 Wroclaw, Poland								1							Ecology	WOS:000595599800006		
J	Putro, Sapto P.; Sharani, Jeanny; Widowati; Adhy, Satriyo; Suryono								Biomonitoring of the Application of Monoculture and Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) Using Macrobenthic Structures at Tembelas Island, Kepulauan Riau Province, Indonesia								JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING				8	11					942	10.3390/jmse8110942			NOV 2020	2020	Sustainable aquaculture needs to be considered when it comes to the utilization of water resources. The aim of this study was to apply biomonitoring using macrobenthic structures on both spatial and temporal applications of monoculture and integrated multi-trophic aquaculture (IMTA) at Tembelas Island, Kepulauan Riau Province, Indonesia. Samples of sediment were taken from three fish farm locations, namely from an IMTA site, a monoculture site, and a reference site. Macrobenthic organisms obtained through rinsing, sieving, and sorting were then identified under a stereo-microscope. Diversity of the macrobenthic assemblages was analyzed with a Shannon-Wiener index (H'). Equitability was expressed through Pielou's evenness index. Finally, Bray-Curtis' non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMDS) was used for similarities derived from log (X+1) transformed macrobenthic abundance to provide a visual representation of differences in their structure between sites over time. Results showed polychaetes exhibited differences in both variation and abundance of genera between the farm and reference site. The assemblage of macrobenthos at the IMTA site consisted of 9 genera of gastropods, 3 genera of bivalves, 5 genera of polychaetes, and 2 genera of crustaceans. At the monoculture site, 12 genera of gastropods, 4 genera of bivalves, 8 genera of polychaetes, 1 genera of crustaceans, and 1 genera of ophiuroid were observed. A relatively high abundance was observed at the reference site, with 27 genera of gastropods, 11 genera of bivalves, 3 genera of polychaetes, and 1 genera of crustacean. The favorable water conditions and possible absence of waste input from aquaculture resulting in a more suitable habitat for macrobenthic life may explain this relative abundance. Some of them were recognised as opportunistic taxa, i.e., Capitella sp., Heteromastus sp., and Lumbrinereis sp. Based on the diversity and evenness indices and the MNDS ordination, it can be concluded that the application of IMTA systems results in a suppressed or reduced potential impact on environmental disturbance due to aquacultural activities.		[Putro, Sapto P.] Diponegoro Univ, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto P.; Sharani, Jeanny] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Widowati] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Math, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Adhy, Satriyo] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Informat, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Suryono] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Phys, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto P.] Diponegoro Univ, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto P.] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Semarang 50275, Cent Java, Indonesia								4							Engineering, Marine; Engineering, Ocean; Oceanography	WOS:000593235000001		
J	Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Bussmann, Rainer W.; Alsamadany, Hameed; Calixto, Eduardo Soares; Shah, Ghulam Mujtaba; Kausar, Rukhsana; Shah, Muzammil; Ali, Niaz; Ijaz, Farhana								Ecological gradients hosting plant communities in Himalayan subalpine pastures: Application of multivariate approaches to identify indicator species								ECOLOGICAL INFORMATICS				60						101162	10.1016/j.ecoinf.2020.101162			NOV 2020	2020	The development of vegetation communities is typically influenced by their response to variation in environmental, geographic and as well as physiographic gradients. The current study was planned to evaluate the influence of environmental gradients upon the structure of plant communities and to highlight their respective indicators in subalpine pastures of the Himalaya, Pakistan. In relation to this aim, ecological techniques were used following the Line transect (50 m) method to quantify the vegetation structure of the study area. Soil samples were collected from each sampling site and edaphic gradients were examined using standard protocols. Weather station data (Kestrel 4000) was used to determine the climatic gradients, GPS data was used to record the geographic and physiographic gradients. PCORD software was used to recognize communities through two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN), R and CANOCO software was employed for ordination analysis to find variation directories of different plant species. A total of 56 plant species, recorded from 21 sampling sites, were grouped into four plant communities with the help of environmental gradients. The highest index of similarity was recorded between the Bergenia-Sibbaldia-Rheum and Sibbaldia-Rheum-Bergenia communities and highest dissimilarity between Bergenia-Sibbaldia-Rheum and Juniperus-Sibbaldia-Poa communities. The highest number of plant species (50 species), maximum alpha diversity (H' = 3.38) and beta diversity was reported in Sibbaldia-Rheum-Bergenia community (0.95), but Pielou's evenness was highest (0.89) in Juniperus-Sibbaldia-Poa among all recorded communities. Besides, the edaphic (i.e. organic matter, phosphorous, pH and soil texture) and climatic factors (temperature, humidity) were the strong environmental gradients that were responsible for structuring and hosting the diverse plant communities in subalpine meadows. Techniques adapted in the current study for identification of vegetation indicators could further be used for conservation management.		[Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab; Iqbal, Zafar; Shah, Ghulam Mujtaba; Ali, Niaz; Ijaz, Farhana] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Khyber Pakhtunk, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur] Missouri Bot Garden, POB 299, St Louis, MO 63166 USA; [Bussmann, Rainer W.] Ilia State Univ, Inst Bot, Dept Ethnobot, 1 Bot St, GE-0105 Tbilisi, Georgia; [Alsamadany, Hameed; Shah, Muzammil] King Abdulaziz Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] Univ Sao Paulo, Dept Biol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Calixto, Eduardo Soares] Univ Missouri St Louis UMSL, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO USA; [Kausar, Rukhsana] Int Islamic Univ, Dept Environm Sci, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Rahman, Inayat Ur; Afzal, Aftab] Hazara Univ, Dept Bot, Mansehra 21300, Khyber Pakhtunk, Pakistan								14							Ecology	WOS:000591932500001		
J	Saroj, Jyoti; Jawahar, P.; Srinivasan, A.; Neethiselvan, N.; Jayakumar, N.								Pelagic Fish Eggs Diversity in the Nearshore Waters of Gulf of Mannar, South East Coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF ANIMAL RESEARCH				54	10			1296	1303	B-3889	10.18805/ijar.B-3889			OCT 2020	2020	Background: A study of the diversity, distribution and development of fish eggs and larvae as an integral part of a fishery research programme serves as a valuable aid in the proper management of fisheries. The study is also an essential prerequisite in understanding the spawning biomass of forecasting and trends of production. Information available on diversity of fish eggs from Indian waters is inadequate. The present study was conducted to understand the diversity and distribution of pelagic fish eggs in the nearshore waters of Gulf of Mannar. Methods: The present study conducted at three stations-Mandapam, Thoothukudi and Punnakayal in the waters of Gulf of Mannar, during 2017-2019. A total of 684 ichthyoplankton samples were collected. In the laboratory, the samples were sorted and identified. The diversity was calculated by Shannon-Weiner, Margalef richness index and Pielou's evenness indices. All the diversity indices were done by using the PRIMER-E software. Result: Our investigation was taken up with objective to assess the status of pelagic fish eggs diversity in the nearshore waters of Gulf of Mannar and found to be more productive. From the diversity study, it is evident that the Punnakayal waters are habitat for a rich diversity of fish species and also a spawning and nursery ground for fishes. Fish eggs diversity is significant for management of fishery resources.		[Saroj, Jyoti; Jawahar, P.; Srinivasan, A.; Neethiselvan, N.] Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Thoothukudi 628008, Tamil Nadu, India; [Jayakumar, N.] Dr MGR Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Ponneri 601204, Tamil Nadu, India; [Saroj, Jyoti] Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Thoothukudi 628008, Tamil Nadu, India								1							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000582435600018		
J	Raghavendra, K. N.; Arvind, Kumar; Anushree, G. K.; Grace, Tony								Biodiversity of butterflies in endosulfan-affected areas of Kerala, India								JOURNAL OF BASIC AND APPLIED ZOOLOGY				81	1					58	10.1186/s41936-020-00192-w			SEP 29 2020	2020	Background: Butterflies are considered as bio-indicators of a healthy and diversified ecosystem. Endosulfan was sprayed indiscriminately in large plantations of Kasaragod district, Kerala which had caused serious threats to the ecosystem. In this study, we surveyed the butterflies for their abundance and diversity in three differentially endosulfan-affected areas viz., Enmakaje-highly affected area, Periye-moderately affected area, Padanakkad-unaffected area, carried out between the end of the monsoon season and the start of the winter season, lasting approximately 100 days. Seven variables viz., butterfly abundance (N), species richness (S), Simpson's reciprocal index (D), the Shannon-Wiener index (H), the exponential of the Shannon-Wiener index (expH), Pielou's evenness (J) and species evenness (D/S), related to species diversity were estimated, followed by the one-way ANOVA (F = 25.01, p < 0.001) and the Kruskal-Wallis test (H = 22.59, p < 0.001). Results: A population of three different butterfly assemblages comprised of 2300 butterflies which represented 61 species were encountered. Our results showed that Enmakaje displayed significantly lower butterfly diversity and abundance, compared to the other two communities. Conclusion: So far, this is the first study concerning the effect of endosulfan on the biodiversity of butterfly in the affected areas of Kasaragod, Kerala, India. This study may present an indirect assessment of the persisting effects of endosulfan in the affected areas, suggesting its long-term effects on the ecosystem.		[Raghavendra, K. N.; Arvind, Kumar; Anushree, G. K.; Grace, Tony] Cent Univ Kerala, Dept Genom Sci, Kasaragod 671316, Kerala, India; [Grace, Tony] Cent Univ Kerala, Dept Genom Sci, Kasaragod 671316, Kerala, India								0							Biology	WOS:001000499200002		
J	Gonzalez-Hernandez, M. P.; Mouronte, V.; Romero, R.; Rigueiro-Rodriguez, A.; Mosquera-Losada, M. R.								Plant diversity and botanical composition in an Atlantic heather-gorse dominated understory after horse grazing suspension: Comparison of a continuous and rotational management								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND CONSERVATION				23						e01134	10.1016/j.gecco.2020.e01134			SEP 2020	2020	Floristic diversity changes substantially depending on the type of land management. We evaluated the impact of a continuous (CG) and rotational (RG) grazing system on the dynamics of plant diversity and community composition in a heather-gorse understory after a two and six-year pause from horse grazing. Previously grazed sites had higher total and rare species richness and diversity than ungrazed (UN), regardless the type of grazing system. The positive impact of previous grazing on species richness was higher in CG and continued after six years in both grazing systems. Seven species of high conservation interest in heathlands were present in the studied areas. Most of them were associated to CG management and none was exclusively in RG. The reduction of the shrub component by previous horse grazing led to a decrease of gorse dominance, thus potentially reducing fire risk and increasing plant diversity. The extent of the positive effect of horse grazing controlling excessive accumulation of combustible material and favoring species richness differed when relative abundance of species, and not solely the number of species, was taken into account (Simpson's dominance increased and Pielou's evenness decreased after six years). Overall, the effects of previous rotational and continuous grazing on plant diversity in an Atlantic heather-gorse dominated plant community were still apparent 2 or 6 years after grazing interruption, although declined after the six-year grazing interlude. Rotational management revealed a slight advantage upon the control of gorse biomass long term, and assisted to maintain the relative abundance of species more evenly over time. The alpha and beta diversity indices confirmed that plant diversity similarity between rotational and continuous management increased after six years. (C) 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V.		[Gonzalez-Hernandez, M. P.; Mouronte, V.; Romero, R.; Rigueiro-Rodriguez, A.; Mosquera-Losada, M. R.] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Dept Crop Prod & Projects Engn, Lugo 27002, Spain; [Gonzalez-Hernandez, M. P.] Univ Santiago de Compostela, Dept Crop Prod & Projects Engn, Lugo 27002, Spain								15							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000568734400005		
J	Tran, T. T.; Nguyen, Y. M. T.; Pham, L. T.; Veettil, B. K.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.								Relationships between environmental variables and free-living nematode communities in seasonally flooded wetlands								GLOBAL JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND MANAGEMENT-GJESM				6	4			509	522		10.22034/gjesm.2020.04.07			FAL 2020	2020	The Lo Go-Xa Mat is a national park in the southeastern region of Vietnam, which has a particularly high biodiversity and it includes different wetlands which are unique diverse in species composition. It can be categorized into two types: temporarily-seasonally and permanently flooded wetlands. Ta Not grassy marsh is representative of the seasonally flooded wetland. Whilst the diversity and ecology of plants and mammals are well documented, little or no information of the benthic ecology in the seasonally flooded wetland exist. This study aims to provide a new database of the nematode's structure in the seasonally flooded wetland and its relation with environmental variables as well as detection of the ecological quality, considering nematodes as bioindicators. This work is the first investigation on nematodes communities in associate with some environmental variables in the Ta Not grassy marsh. The results showed that free-living nematodes in the Ta Not seasonally flooded grassy marsh are characterized by the high density (ranged from 235.01 to 898.43 inds.10cm(-2)) but rather low diversity. More specifically, the genus richness (S) ranged from 8.20 to 8.60. The observed Margalef's species richness (d) was ranging from 1.07 to 1.53 and the Shannon-Wiener index (H') was measured from 2.36 to 2.52. In addition, the Pielou's evenness (J') ranged from 0.55 to 0.68 and the Hill indices indicated average values ranging between 5.46-5.84 for N-1, between 4.32-4.60 for N-2, and between 2.64-2.86 for N-inf. Specifically, our results indicated that deep level, pH, and NH4+ showed a significant correlation with the nematode density and bio-indices. The sediment of the Ta Not grassy marsh was assessed as in good conditions in all stations based on the Maturity Index of nematodes. (C) 2020 GJESM. All rights reserved.		[Tran, T. T.; Nguyen, Y. M. T.; Pham, L. T.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Trop Biol, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Pham, L. T.; Hoang, S. N.; Ngo, Q. X.] Grad Univ Sci & Technol, Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam; [Veettil, B. K.] Duy Tan Univ, Inst Fundamental & Appl Sci, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Veettil, B. K.] Duy Tan Univ, Fac Informat Technol, Da Nang 550000, Vietnam; [Ngo, Q. X.] Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Inst Trop Biol, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam; [Ngo, Q. X.] Grad Univ Sci & Technol, Vietnam Acad Sci & Technol, Hanoi 100000, Vietnam								0							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000570746100007		
J	Carlucci, Margherita; Zambon, Ilaria; Salvati, Luca								Diversification in urban functions as a measure of metropolitan complexity								ENVIRONMENT AND PLANNING B-URBAN ANALYTICS AND CITY SCIENCE				47	7			1289	1305		10.1177/2399808319828374			SEP 2020	2020	Newly emerging relationships between form and function reveal the increasingly complex nature of metropolitan regions. The present study investigates spatial diversification in settlement forms and socioeconomic functions in metropolitan Attica (the administrative region including Athens, the capital of Greece), with the aim of implementing a holistic framework assessing urban complexity in contemporary cities. Taken as key components of urban complexity, morphological and functional diversity have been analysed using multi-domain indicators that describe settlement characteristics (land-use, soil sealing, building use, vertical profile of buildings, building age, construction materials) and socioeconomic functions (economic base, working classes, education levels, population age structure, composition of non-native population by citizenship, distribution of personal incomes), thus providing a comprehensive description of local-scale diversification in urban structures. A correlation analysis was used to verify the spatial coherency between individual dimensions of urban diversification. Analysis of global Moran's spatial autocorrelation index reveals specific gradients of urban diversification that discriminate morphological attributes from socioeconomic functions. Municipalities were profiled on the basis of Pielou's evenness indexes for each urban dimension: a factor analysis indicates latent patterns characterizing areas with high and low diversification in metropolitan functions. Urban and rural municipalities were, respectively, characterized as the most and least diversified in the study area, with peri-urban municipalities ranking in-between, evidencing a diversification gradient correlated with the distance from downtown Athens. A multidimensional analysis of the most relevant dimensions of metropolitan complexity has proved to be a promising tool for monitoring urban gradients, polycentric development and (latent) socioeconomic transformations in contemporary cities.		[Carlucci, Margherita] Sapienza Univ Rome, Rome, Italy; [Zambon, Ilaria] Tuscia Univ, Viterbo, Italy; [Salvati, Luca] Council Agr Res & Econ CREA, I-52100 Arezzo, Italy; [Salvati, Luca] Czech Acad Sci, Change Res Inst, Prague, Czech Republic; [Salvati, Luca] CREA, Viale Santa Margherita 80, I-52100 Arezzo, Italy								8							Environmental Studies; Geography; Regional & Urban Planning; Urban Studies	WOS:000572655200017		
J	Sushko, Gennadi								Spatial variation in assemblages of Odonata (Insecta) within habitat gradients in large, pristine peat bogs in Belarus								BIOLOGIA				76	2			575	583		10.2478/s11756-020-00558-z			FEB 2021	2021	The variation in environmental conditions in peat bogs can be expressed by odonate assemblage composition among habitats or by differences in species richness, abundance and diversity among study sites in a regional context. The adult Odonata of large, pristine peat bogs in Belarus were examined. Adult Odonata were counted along fixed transects in main peat bog habitats under favorable weather conditions. The odonate diversity showed clear differences, affected by distance to the water body, wind speed, and bog water level. The highest diversity was recorded along lakeshores. This study detected distinct odonate assemblage variations among habitats such as lagg zones, lakeshores and hollows. The large areas occupied by pine bogs and open bogs had a very similar species composition and lower diversity. On the other hand, the Shannon diversity index (H ' = 1.433-2.295) and Pielou's evenness index (J' = 0.468-0.507) values were relatively high compared to those of terrestrial insects. The main differences among adult odonate assemblages were driven by cold-adapted, highly specialized species such asLeucorrhinia albifrons, Leucorrhinia dubia, Sympetrum danaeand two abundant generalist species such asSympetrum sanguineumandSympetrum vulgatum. Peat bog specialists are among the most rapidly declining insects and, therefore, relatively intact Belarusian peat bogs are refuges for many threatened species and have considerable conservation potential.		[Sushko, Gennadi] Vitebsk State Univ PM Masherov, Dept Ecol & Environm Protect, Moscovski Ave 33, Vitebsk 21005, BELARUS; [Sushko, Gennadi] Vitebsk State Univ PM Masherov, Dept Ecol & Environm Protect, Moscovski Ave 33, Vitebsk 21005, BELARUS								5							Biology	WOS:000553626500001		
J	Gupta, Puja; Vakhlu, Jyoti; Sharma, Yash Pal; Imchen, Madangchanok; Kumavath, Ranjith								Metagenomic insights into the fungal assemblages of the northwest Himalayan cold desert								EXTREMOPHILES				24	5			749	758		10.1007/s00792-020-01191-z			SEP 2020	2020	Psychrophilic fungi are a critical biotic component in cold deserts that serves a central role in nutrient recycling and biogeochemical cycles. Despite their ecological significance, culture-independent studies on psychrophilic mycobiome are limited. In the present study, the fungal diversity patterns across the Drass, an Indian cold desert in the Himalaya, were indexed by targeted amplicon pyrosequencing (ITS). In the Drass dataset, Ascomycota was represented by 92 genera, while 22 genera represented Basidiomycota. The most abundant genus was Conocybe (20.46%). Most of the identified genera were reported in the literature to be prolific extracellular hydrolytic enzyme producers. To identify whether the Drass fungal assemblages share similarities to other cold deserts, these were further compared to Antarctic and Arctic cold deserts. Comparative analysis across the three cold deserts indicated the dominance of Dikarya (Ascomycota and Basidiomycota). The observed alpha diversity, Shannon index as well as Pielou's evenness was highest in the Antarctic followed by Drass and Arctic datasets. The genera Malassezia, Preussia, Pseudogymnoascus, Cadophora, Geopora, Monodictys, Tetracladium, Titaea, Mortierella, and Cladosporium were common to all the cold deserts. Furthermore, Conocybe was represented predominantly in Drass. Interestingly, the genus Conocybe has not been previously reported from any other studies on Antarctic or Arctic biomes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first fungal metagenome study in Drass soil. Our analysis shows that despite the similarities of low temperature among the cold deserts, a significant differential abundance of fungal communities prevails in the global cold deserts.		[Gupta, Puja; Vakhlu, Jyoti] Univ Jammu, Sch Biotechnol, Jammu 180006, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Sharma, Yash Pal] Univ Jammu, Dept Bot, Jammu 180006, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Imchen, Madangchanok; Kumavath, Ranjith] Cent Univ Kerala, Dept Genom Sci, Tejaswini Hills, Kasaragod 671320, Periya, India; [Gupta, Puja; Vakhlu, Jyoti] Univ Jammu, Sch Biotechnol, Jammu 180006, Jammu & Kashmir, India; [Kumavath, Ranjith] Cent Univ Kerala, Dept Genom Sci, Tejaswini Hills, Kasaragod 671320, Periya, India								5							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Microbiology	WOS:000551779400001		
J	Roy, Suparna								Seaweed diversity within intertidal zone of Olaikuda and Vadakkadu, Rameshwaram, southeast coast of India								HELIYON				6	7					e04585	10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e04585			JUL 2020	2020	Seasonal variation of seaweed diversity was studied in Olaikuda and Vadakkadu, the two unexplored coastal areas in Rameshwaram Island in south coast of India. An extensive survey on seasonal changes of seaweed diversity was made study and the data were analyzed for different diversity indices. In each location, 3 transects at 100 m gap were taken and in each transect 10 quadrates, a total of 30 quadrates were taken for seaweeds diversity. The diversity data were analyzed with statistical methods such as graphical and statistical analysis K-dominance curve with software PRIMER package, cluster analysis, multivariate methods, anosim and diversity indices such as Shannon Weaver diversity index, Simpson species richness index, Fisher alpha index, Pielou's evenness, and taxonomic species diversity (delta) index were analyzed by using the software R statistic version 3.1.4. Package (vegan). Totally 74 species including 28 species of Chlorophyceae, 18 species of Phaeophyceae and 28 species of Rhodophyceae were recorded. The study areas are flourishing with 49-59 seaweed species. It is inferred that the seaweeds are well diversified seasonally except summer. The baseline data generated in this work will help in conservation of the seaweeds in the areas.		[Roy, Suparna] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Annamalainagar, Tamil Nadu, India; [Roy, Suparna] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Annamalainagar, Tamil Nadu, India								2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000558740400022		
J	Chandra, Priyanka; Dhuli, Pooja; Verma, Pooja; Singh, Awtar; Choudhary, Madhu; Prajapat, Kailash; Rai, A. K.; Yadav, R. K.								Culturable microbial diversity in the rhizosphere of different biotypes under variable salinity								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				61	3			291	300		10.1007/s42965-020-00089-3			SEP 2020	2020	The microbial diversity in the rhizosphere of different biotypes is influenced by different factors like plant species, root exudates and soil environment. Culturable microbial diversity in the rhizosphere of six biotypes (Chenopodium murale(CM),Spergula arvensis(SA),Launaea nudicaulis(LN),Brassica juncea(BJ),Phalaris minor(PM) andTriticum aestivum(TA)) growing in variable saline environment (ECe < 8.0 and > 8.0 dS m(-1)) was assessed and compared with the diversity of bulk soils (BS) of same environments. The significantly (P < 0.0001) highest bacterial and actinomycetes population were found in the rhizosphere of BJ whereas SA possessed higher fungal population. Phosphorus and zinc solubilizing bacteria was also found highest in BJ and TA rhizosphere, respectively. High saline soils had greater endospore forming bacterial population. The TA (0.88) and LN (0.87) rhizospheres showed significantly greater Shannon-Weiner diversity index compared to bulk soils (0.45-0.61). Pielou's index of evenness of different samples ranged from 0.13 to 0.43. Discriminant function analysis revealed that rhizospheres of SA, CM and TA were clearly distinct. The rhizospheric soil of PM and BJ were similar to each other but clearly distinct from others. The observed separation of different biotypes was regulated by dimorphic fungi, nitrogen fixing bacteria,Pseudomonas, and fungi. Thus, our study clearly suggests that culturable microbial populations are influenced by different biotypes and salinity levels.		[Chandra, Priyanka; Dhuli, Pooja; Verma, Pooja; Singh, Awtar; Choudhary, Madhu; Prajapat, Kailash; Rai, A. K.; Yadav, R. K.] ICAR Cent Soil Salin Res Inst, Karnal 132001, Haryana, India; [Singh, Awtar; Choudhary, Madhu] ICAR Cent Soil Salin Res Inst, Karnal 132001, Haryana, India								18							Ecology	WOS:000544139800001		
J	Elferink, Stephanie; Wohlrab, Sylke; Neuhaus, Stefan; Cembella, Allan; Harms, Lars; John, Uwe								Comparative Metabarcoding and Metatranscriptomic Analysis of Microeukaryotes Within Coastal Surface Waters of West Greenland and Northwest Iceland								FRONTIERS IN MARINE SCIENCE				7						439	10.3389/fmars.2020.00439			JUN 26 2020	2020	Climate change alters environmental conditions that are expected to have a profound effect on the biodiversity, community composition, and metabolic processes of microeukaryotic plankton in Arctic and Subarctic coastal waters. The molecular biodiversity [large subunit (LSU) rRNA gene] of three plankton size-fractions (micro-, nano-, and picoplankton) from coastal waters of ice-influenced west Greenland was compared with fractions from ice-free northwest Iceland within their summer environmental context. Putative metabolic functions were determined by differentially expressed mRNA (metatranscriptomics) of the microplankton. Temperature and salinity variations were more closely correlated than inorganic macronutrients with metabolic functions and community composition. Temperature explained much of the community variance, approximately 20% among micro- and nanoplankton, whereas other environmental factors accounted for rather low fractional variance (<7%). Species of smaller cell-size were more evenly distributed (Pielou's evenness index J) across regions, with a higher diversity and total abundance, and thereby indicating high plasticity. The metatranscriptomic profiles in these respective microeukaryotic communities revealed that diatoms were more plastic in their gene expression than dinoflagellates, but dinoflagellates had a more diverse, albeit homogeneously expressed, gene pool. This could be interpreted as expression of alternative lifestyle strategies, whereby the functionally more conservative diatoms fill their niches primarily through variable resource use, whereas dinoflagellates apparently differentiate their niches through more diverse lifestyles. Patterns of microeukaryotic diversity are thus primarily associated with differences in metabolic function and activity of diatom- versus dinoflagellate-dominated communities in Arctic and Subarctic waters during summer.		[Elferink, Stephanie; Wohlrab, Sylke; Neuhaus, Stefan; Cembella, Allan; Harms, Lars; John, Uwe] Alfred Wegener Inst, Dept Ecol Chem, Helmholtz Ctr Polar & Marine Res, Bremerhaven, Germany; [Wohlrab, Sylke; Harms, Lars; John, Uwe] Helmholtz Inst Funct Marine Biodivers, Oldenburg, Germany; [Elferink, Stephanie; John, Uwe] Alfred Wegener Inst, Dept Ecol Chem, Helmholtz Ctr Polar & Marine Res, Bremerhaven, Germany; [John, Uwe] Helmholtz Inst Funct Marine Biodivers, Oldenburg, Germany								9							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000548087200001		
J	Akhi, Most Mahmuda; Jewel, Md Abu Sayed; Haque, Md Ayenuddin; Sarker, Biplob Kumer; Khatun, Mst Samsad; Paul, Alok Kumar; Islam, M. Shahanul; Das, Simon Kumar								Multivariate approaches to determine the relationship between fish assemblage structure and environmental variables in Karatoya River, Bangladesh								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				21	2			171	181		10.1007/s42974-020-00015-6			JUL 2020	2020	Karatoya River is an important freshwater system that is home to different types of fish species. In the present study, the seasonal abundance and diversity indices of fish assemblage and their relationship with physicochemical parameters were studied. Fifty-four fish species were recorded from four stations for 12 months. The highest number of fish was recorded during the post-monsoon season and the lowest was recorded in the monsoon season. Analysis of similarity evidenced a significant difference (P < 0.05) in species abundance among the seasons. Similarity percentage analysis showed that the overall average dissimilarity among the three seasons was 73.53%, and six species were responsible for this dissimilarity. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination plot based on similarity indicated that the monsoon season completely differed from the other two seasons (pre-monsoon and post-monsoon) in terms of fish abundance. The values of Shannon-Wiener diversity, Margalef's richness, and Pielou's evenness indices varied from season to season. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to identify the most important water quality parameters influencing the seasonal variation of fish assemblage structure and to reveal the remarkable roles of alkalinity, total dissolved solids, electrical conductivity, and dissolved oxygen in the Karatoya River in Bangladesh. This study provides essential baseline information on the relationship between the environmental parameters and fish diversity in freshwater habitats in Bangladesh.		[Akhi, Most Mahmuda; Jewel, Md Abu Sayed; Haque, Md Ayenuddin; Sarker, Biplob Kumer; Khatun, Mst Samsad; Paul, Alok Kumar] Univ Rajshahi, Fac Agr, Dept Fisheries, Rajshahi 6205, Bangladesh; [Islam, M. Shahanul] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Food Engn & Biotechnol, TEDA, 29,13th Ave, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Earth Sci & Environm, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Marine Ecosyst Res Ctr, Bangi, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Dept Earth Sci & Environm, Ukm Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia; [Das, Simon Kumar] Univ Kebangsaan Malaysia, Fac Sci & Technol, Marine Ecosyst Res Ctr, Bangi, Malaysia								5							Ecology	WOS:000538977300001		
J	Novais, Maria Helena; Morales, Eduardo A.; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Potes, Miguel; Bouchez, Agnes; Barthes, Amelie; Costa, Maria Joao; Salgado, Rui; Santos, Jorge; Morais, Manuela								Benthic diatom community dynamics in Mediterranean intermittent streams: Effects of water availability and their potential as indicators of dry-phase ecological status								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				719						137462	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.137462			JUN 1 2020	2020	The study of intermittent rivers is a critical and timely issue due to their worldwide increase, triggered by several causes including climate change. The need to understand the response of intermittent river biota to water intermittency led us to conduct this study using benthic diatoms collected in southern Portugal. Benthic diatoms were explored in terms of assemblages, diversity indices, the Specific Pollution Sensitivity (SPI) Index, functional metrics (i.e. ecological guilds and life-forms) and conservation status. We verified that changes in water physicochemical characteristics were highly controlled by flow intermittency, which in turn is directly linked to meteorological variables (air temperature and precipitation). Changes in diatom assemblages reflect the aquatic regime of sites, changes in aquatic states through time and mesohabitats (dry biofilm, samples collected in pools or under flowing conditions). Species richness, on the other hand, did not reflect these differences, whilst Shannon diversity and Pielou's Evenness indices only reflected mesohabitat differences. The SPI distinguished sampling periods, and mesohabitats. The relative abundance of ecological guilds changed with aquatic states, with the low-profile guild dominating in eurheic and arheic conditions (except during Summer), being replaced by motile taxa in summer arheic conditions, reflecting increases in nutrient and siltation. The hypothesis that benthic diatom assemblages in dry biofilm can be used as an indicator of ecological status during the dry-phase was vali-dated, since no differences between the Ecological Quality Ratio determined in dry biofilm collected in Summer 2017 and the previous Spring 2017 in flowing water. A method is proposed for diatom sampling in thy biofilm, contributing to an integrated ecological status evaluation, which considers the dry-phase and enhances the reach of biomonitoring programs. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Novais, Maria Helena; Morales, Eduardo A.; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Potes, Miguel; Costa, Maria Joao; Salgado, Rui; Morais, Manuela] Univ Evora, Inst Earth Sci ICT, Rua Romao Ramalho 5, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Novais, Maria Helena] Univ Evora, Renewable Energies Chair, Rua D Augusto Eduardo Nunes 7, P-7000651 Evora, Portugal; [Morales, Eduardo A.; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Morais, Manuela] Univ Evora, Water Lab, Rua Barba Rala 1, P-7005345 Evora, Portugal; [Costa, Maria Joao; Salgado, Rui] Univ Evora, Dept Phys, ECT, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Bouchez, Agnes] INRAE, UMR CARRTEL, Thonon Les Bains, France; [Barthes, Amelie] EUROFINS Hydrobiol France, Vergeze, France; [Santos, Jorge] Univ Evora, Dept Math, ECT, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Santos, Jorge] Univ Evora, CIMA Res Ctr Math & Applicat, IIFA, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Novais, Maria Helena] Univ Evora, Inst Earth Sci ICT, Rua Romao Ramalho 5, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal								18							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000521936300021		
J	Carlos Monarrez-Gonzalez, Jose; Socorro Gonzalez-Elizondo, M.; Antonio Marquez-Linares, Marco; Joaquin Gutierrez-Yurrita, Pedro; Perez-Verdin, Gustavo								Effect of forest management on tree diversity in temperate ecosystem forests in northern Mexico								PLOS ONE				15	5					e0233292	10.1371/journal.pone.0233292			MAY 18 2020	2020	An important challenge for silvicultural practices is the conservation of tree diversity while fulfilling the traditional objectives of forest management, most notably timber harvesting. The purpose of this study was to compare the tree diversity before and after the application of silvicultural treatments in a temperate forest in northern Mexico. Fifteen experimental plots, each measuring 2500 m(2), were established to evaluate the immediate effect of four silvicultural treatments. These treatments were identified by their levels of management: intensive (clearcut, removal 100%), semi-intensive (removal of 59-61% of basal area), conservative (removal of 29-31% of basal area), and a control group. New forest guidelines, in contrast to conventional approaches, were applied to the semi-intensive and conservative treatments based on health and diversity conditions. Basal area, canopy cover, tree and total volume were measured in each plot. The Importance Value Index, alpha diversity, and evenness were estimated before and after treatments. Eighteen species belonging to five genera and five families were found in the study area. The species with the highest ecological values were Pinus durangensis, P. teocote, Quercus sideroxyla, and Quercus convallata with IVI numbers between 13.6 and 24.5%. Alpha diversity was intermediate (Margalef: 2.9 to 3.8), while dominance and evenness were above average compared to other studies (Simpson: 0.69 to 0.77; Shannon-Wiener: 1.44 to 1.6; Pielou: 0.76 to 0.85). The species evenness index in the conservative treatment was high (Sorensen, Jaccard, quantitative Sorensen and Morisita-Horn; 88 to 99%), although abundance decreased. Overall, there were no significant differences in IVI values and diversity indicators before and after treatments, with the exception of the clearcut treatment. When associating the diversity indices with stand variables, only the Pielou's evenness index showed a significant relationship between them. We concluded that both the conservative and semi-intensive treatments did not generate significant changes in tree diversity, but the former had slightly higher alpha diversity indices. These results can provide a better insight on silvicultural practices and their effects on species composition.		[Carlos Monarrez-Gonzalez, Jose] Inst Nacl Invest Agr & Forestales, Campo Expt Valle Guadiana, Durango, Mexico; [Carlos Monarrez-Gonzalez, Jose; Socorro Gonzalez-Elizondo, M.; Antonio Marquez-Linares, Marco; Perez-Verdin, Gustavo] Inst Politecn Nacl, CIIDIR DGO, Durango, Mexico; [Joaquin Gutierrez-Yurrita, Pedro] Inst Politecn Nacl, CIIEMAD, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Perez-Verdin, Gustavo] Inst Politecn Nacl, CIIDIR DGO, Durango, Mexico								23							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000537499600040		
J	Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Dai, Fangqun; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao; Sun, Jianqiang								Effects of latitude gradient and seasonal variation on the community structure and biodiversity of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and the northern East China Sea								MARINE LIFE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY				2	2			146	154		10.1007/s42995-020-00026-2			MAY 2020	2020	To evaluate the spatio-temporal variations in the community structure and biodiversity of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and the northern East China Sea (NECS), the seasonal and regional changes in species composition, biomass structure, biodiversity and distribution of commercially important species were analyzed using bottom trawl survey data during 2014-2015. The results showed that the latitudinal gradient was obvious in species richness, dominant species and biodiversity. The indices of biodiversity increased with the decreasing latitude. When the sampling sites shifted south by one latitudinal degree, Margalef's richness index (D), Pielou's evenness index (J ') and Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H ') increased by 0.10, 0.03 and 0.09, respectively. The biomass proportion of the cold-temperate species represented by Crangon affinis declined with the decreasing latitude, and the warm-temperate species represented by Ovalipes punctatus and Portunus trituberculatus increased. Because of the growth regulation of crustaceans and the fishing moratorium, the biomass of commercially important crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and NECS was highest in October and August, respectively. Salinity had a more significant influence on H ' of commercially important crustaceans than other environmental factors (including zooplankton density, sea bottom temperature and water depth). Overall, the results of this study contribute to a better understanding of community dynamics of crustaceans in the Yellow Sea and NECS, and provide evidence to verify the latitudinal gradient theory in biodiversity.		[Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Dai, Fangqun; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao; Sun, Jianqiang] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Key Lab Sustainable Dev Marine Fisheries, Shandong Prov Key Lab Fishery Resources & Ecoenvi, Minist Agr, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Wu, Qiang; Shan, Xiujuan; Jin, Xianshi; Jin, Yue; Shi, Yongqiang; Guan, Lisha; Zuo, Tao] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China; [Jin, Xianshi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Key Lab Sustainable Dev Marine Fisheries, Shandong Prov Key Lab Fishery Resources & Ecoenvi, Minist Agr, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Jin, Xianshi] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao 266237, Peoples R China								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000649453600005		
J	Farantika, Rafita; Putro, Sapto Purnomo; Indarjo, Agus								Biomonitoring application using macrozoobenthic assemblanges at coastal area of Menjagan Besar Island, Kepulauan Karimunjawa, Indonesia								MALAYSIAN JOURNAL OF FUNDAMENTAL AND APPLIED SCIENCES				16	3			292	296					MAY-JUN 2020	2020	The macrozoobenthic structure inhabiting marine ecosystem may be used as a bioindicator of changes in aquatic environmental disturbance. This study was aimed to assess environmental disturbance by application of biomonitoring using macrozoobenthic assemblages at coastal area of Menjangan Besar Island, Kepulauan Karimunjawa, Indonesia. The macrozoobenthic assemblages were assessed at two sampling locations, i.e. floating net cage of monoculture and reference areas. Each sampling location was consisted of three stations with three replicates for each station. The samples were taken in two sampling times, i.e. August and November 2018. Data of abiotic parameters included the composition of organic matter content, sediment substrates, DO, pH, salinity, temperature and water current. Sediments were sampled using Ekman grab from 15 m deep. The relationship between biotics (macrozoobenthos) and abiotics (physical-chemical factors) was assessed using a non-parametric multivariate procedure (B10-ENV; Primer 6.1.5). Macrobenthic assemblages were consisted of 89 species with the total abundance of 1,135 individuals, 52 families and 4 classes of macrozoobenthos. The values of indices were ranging from 2,47-3,33 for diversity index (H'), 0,95-0,97 for Pielou's evenness index (e'), and 0,08-0,15 for dominance index (C). The most common classes were a member of Gastropods and bivalves. Diversity and evennes indices exhibited were differed by location (monoculture vs reference) and time sampling. Fluctuation of macrobenthic structure was considered as a result of environmental changes spatially and temporally, especially sediment composition and food availability as the form of organic matter. Nitrogen and silt were the most chemical and physical factors influencing the structure of macrozoobenthos (r = 0,632; BIO-ENV).		[Farantika, Rafita; Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Jl Prof H Soedarto SH, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Cent Lab Res & Serv, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, 2and Floor,Jl Prof H Soedarto SH, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Indarjo, Agus] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Fishery & Marine Sci, Dept Marine Sci, Jl Prof H Soedarto SH, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Jl Prof H Soedarto SH, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Cent Lab Res & Serv, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, 2and Floor,Jl Prof H Soedarto SH, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000541828800007		
J	Alroy, John								On four measures of taxonomic richness								PALEOBIOLOGY				46	2			158	175	PII S009483731900040X	10.1017/pab.2019.40			MAY 2020	2020	The choice of measures used to estimate the richness of species, genera, or higher taxa is a crucial matter in paleobiology and ecology. This paper evaluates four methods called shareholder quorum subsampling, true richness estimated using a Poisson sampling model (TRiPS), squares, and the corrected first-order jackknife (cJ1). Quorum subsampling interpolates to produce a relative richness estimate, while the other three extrapolate to the size of the overall species pool. Here I use routine ecological data to show that squares and cJ1 pass several basic validation tests, but TRiPS does not. First, TRiPS estimates are insensitive to the shape of abundance distributions, being entirely predicted by total counts of species and of individuals regardless of the details. Furthermore, TRiPS tends not to extrapolate at all when sampling is moderate or intense. Second, all three extrapolators yield lower values when they work with small uniform subsamples of large raw inventories. The third test is a split-analyze-and-sum analysis: each inventory is divided between the most common and least common halves of the abundance distribution, the methods are applied to the half-inventories, and the estimates are summed. Squares and cJ1 perform well here, but TRiPS does not extrapolate as long as the full inventories are reasonably well-sampled. It is otherwise not particularly accurate. The extrapolators are largely insensitive to the influence of abundance distribution evenness, as quantified using Pielou's J and a new index called the ratio of means. Quorum subsampling generally performs well, but it stumbles on the split-analyze-and-sum test and is confounded somewhat by evenness.		[Alroy, John] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Alroy, John] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia								14							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology; Paleontology	WOS:000537776200002		
J	de Almeida Junior, Eduardo Bezerra; Freire Correia, Bruna Emanuele; Santos-Filho, Francisco Soares								Diversity and structure of the woody component of a restinga in Alcantara, Maranhao State, Brazil								ACTA BRASILIENSIS				4	2			85	90		10.22571/2526-4338261			MAY-AUG 2020	2020	Although Maranhao State has the second longest coastline of Brazil, phytosociological studies are necessary to expand the knowledge of the restinga vegetation therein. Thus, the present study characterizes structural parameters of the woody component of a restinga in Alcantara city, west coast of Maranhao State. The phytosociological sampling included thirteen 100 m parallel transects, totaling 50 points. The inclusion criterion established for the species was perimeter at ground level > 10 cm. We sampled 34 species, 26 genera, and 17 families, totaling 200 individuals. The species with the highest importance value (IV) were Guettarda angelica Mart. ex Miill.Arg., Anacardium occidentale L., Myrcia splendens (Sw.) DC., Cenostigma bracteosum (Tul.) E. Gagnon & G.P. Lewis, Fridericia sp., Eugenia stictopetala Mart. ex DC., and Mouriri guianensis Aubl. The average height of the specimens was 4.44 m, and the average diameter was 12.6 cm. The Shannon diversity index found in the restinga was 2.92 nat. ine, and Pielou's evenness was 0.83. It is worth mentioning the presence of Sapium glandulosum (L.) Morong and Manilkara bidentata (A.DC.) A.Chev, which are common species of the Cerrado and the Amazonian forest, respectively. Our findings contribute to the knowledge of diversity, generating data for the development of conservation studies, besides reinforcing the influence of the flora of neighboring ecosystems in the colonization of the restingas of Maranhao State.		[de Almeida Junior, Eduardo Bezerra; Freire Correia, Bruna Emanuele] Univ Fed Maranhao, Programa Posgrad Biodiversidade & Conservacao, BR-65080805 Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil; [Santos-Filho, Francisco Soares] Univ Fed Piaui, Programa Posgrad Desenvolvimento & Meio Ambiente, BR-64002150 Teresina, Piaui, Brazil; [de Almeida Junior, Eduardo Bezerra] Univ Fed Maranhao, Programa Posgrad Biodiversidade & Conservacao, BR-65080805 Sao Luis, Maranhao, Brazil								1							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000536881500002		
J	Sanei-Dehkordi, Alireza; Soleimani-Ahmadi, Moussa; Cheshmposhan, Abdolrahim; Akbarzadeh, Kamran								Biodiversity of Medically Important Calyptratae Flies (Diptera: Schizophora) in Hospitals in the Northern Coastline of the Persian Gulf, Iran								JOURNAL OF MEDICAL ENTOMOLOGY				57	3			766	771		10.1093/jme/tjz222			MAY 2020	2020	Domestic filth flies play a significant role in the transmission of nosocomial infections and cause nosocomial myiasis in hospitals worldwide. This descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted in five hospitals of the Hormozgan province, of southern Iran. Adult flies were collected by bottle fly traps. Specimens were pinned and morphologically identified using the relevant keys. Species biodiversity indices including Menhinick (M), Shannon-Wiener (H'), Pielou's Evenness (E), and Simpson's diversity (D) were calculated. Totally 2,298 individuals of 18 species of flies belonging to nine genera and four families were collected. Chrysomya megacephala was the most frequent species (37.3%), followed by Chrysoma albiceps (24.8%), Fannia canicularis (5.1%), Musca domestica (4.8%), Sarcophaga aegyptica (3.7%), and 15 other species (24.4%). Our results show a high diversity and abundance of domestic filth flies in the studied hospitals. Relatively similar data derived from various hospitals in this study can show the uniformity in sanitary conditions of hospitals. On the other hand, estimation of diversity indices alarmed for potential of dominant species in fly communities in hospital environments.		[Sanei-Dehkordi, Alireza; Soleimani-Ahmadi, Moussa; Cheshmposhan, Abdolrahim] Hormozgan Univ Med Sci, Fac Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Bandar Abbas, Iran; [Sanei-Dehkordi, Alireza; Soleimani-Ahmadi, Moussa] Hormozgan Univ Med Sci, Infect & Trop Dis Res Ctr, Hormozgan Hlth Inst, Bandar Abbas, Iran; [Akbarzadeh, Kamran] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Ghods St,Enghelab St, Tehran, Iran; [Akbarzadeh, Kamran] Univ Tehran Med Sci, Sch Publ Hlth, Dept Med Entomol & Vector Control, Ghods St,Enghelab St, Tehran, Iran								3							Entomology; Veterinary Sciences	WOS:000580630900014		
J	Ji, Lei; Jiang, Xiaoming; Liu, Chunxiang; Xu, Ziyi; Wang, Jinhui; Qian, Sheng; Zhou, Han								Response of traditional and taxonomic distinctness diversity indices of benthic macroinvertebrates to environmental degradation gradient in a large Chinese shallow lake								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				27	17			21804	21815		10.1007/s11356-020-08610-w			JUN 2020	2020	A variety of biodiversity metrics are available to assess the quality of aquatic ecosystems. However, different types of metrics perform with considerable variation and provide various information involved in ecosystem conditions. Taxonomic distinctness (TD) indices have been recommended as desirable measures for assessing environmental degradation, but their utility based on lake macroinvertebrates is still largely unknown. Here, we evaluated the response of traditional and taxonomic distinctness diversity indices (the average taxonomic distinctness, Delta(+), and variation in taxonomic distinctness, ?(+)) of benthic macroinvertebrates to environmental degradation gradient in Lake Taihu, the third largest freshwater lake in China. Benthic assemblages responded markedly to human disturbances, with significance among-region differences in community composition throughout four seasons. The traditional biodiversity indices (Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness) showed high sensitivity in discriminating anthropogenic impacts, with highest values in macrophytic region but lowest values in eutrophic region. In contrast, Delta(+) and ?(+) did not perform well in distinguishing sites subjected to different disturbance levels. The Pearson correlation and multiple regression analysis both indicated that traditional biodiversity metrics (Shannon-Wiener diversity, taxon richness, and Pielou's evenness) responded more readily to water quality variables (Secchi depth, electrical conductivity, and comprehensive trophic level index) than Delta(+) and ?(+). Despite the weak correlations between TD indices of benthic macroinvertebrates and water quality in the present study, we suggest that the TD indices should still be considered in bioassessment programs because they provide useful complementary information on traditional diversity indices.		[Ji, Lei; Liu, Chunxiang; Xu, Ziyi; Wang, Jinhui; Qian, Sheng; Zhou, Han] Huaibei Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Key Lab Resource & Plant Biol Anhui Prov, Huaibei 235000, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Xiaoming] Xian Univ Technol, State Key Lab Ecohydraul Northwest Arid Reg China, Xian 710048, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Xiaoming] Xian Univ Technol, State Key Lab Ecohydraul Northwest Arid Reg China, Xian 710048, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								10							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000525336200005		
J	Aliu, Olanrewaju O.; Akindele, Emmanuel O.; Adeniyi, Israel F.								Biological assessment of the headwater rivers of Opa Reservoir, Ile-Ife, Nigeria, using ecological methods								JOURNAL OF BASIC AND APPLIED ZOOLOGY				81	1					11	10.1186/s41936-020-00151-5			APR 6 2020	2020	Background: Headwater streams and small rivers within a catchment basin contribute greatly to the overall physico-chemical and biological quality of downstream larger freshwater systems; hence, there is a need to continually assess the water quality of such smaller systems. In this study, the three major tributaries (Obudu, Opa, and Esinmirin rivers) of a tropical reservoir were assessed for their water quality using some selected water and sediment parameters, as well as their macroinvertebrate faunae. Results: All the measured water parameters were found to be within the recommended standards for freshwater life in the three rivers, except for PO43- and dissolved oxygen in Opa River which was possibly due to anthropogenic factors. The bottom sediment of the rivers was predominantly sandy and generally low in chemical characteristics. A total of 17 species of macroinvertebrates were recorded in this study: 14 species in Obudu River, 12 species in Esinmirin River, and 11 species in Opa River. Diversity (Margalef and Shannon-Wiener) and Pielou's evenness indices were all low and indicative of an impaired freshwater system, with the lowest indices recorded in the Esinmirin River. Some macrobenthic environmental indicators of poor water quality (e.g., Tubifex sp., Tipula sp., Chironomus sp., Bulinus globosus, and Eristalis sp.) were exclusively recorded in the Esinmirin and/or Obudu River. Conclusion: The study concludes that the reservoir's headwaters were moderately polluted and had a tendency to become severely polluted by anthropogenic activities along the rivers. Measures should be put in place to reduce environmental impact on the quality of the headwaters and by implication, the reservoir.		[Aliu, Olanrewaju O.] Obafemi Awolowo Univ, Inst Ecol & Environm Studies, Ife, Nigeria; [Akindele, Emmanuel O.; Adeniyi, Israel F.] Obafemi Awolowo Univ, Dept Zool, Ife, Nigeria; [Akindele, Emmanuel O.] Obafemi Awolowo Univ, Dept Zool, Ife, Nigeria								7							Biology	WOS:001000381500001		
J	Kamng'ona, Arox W.; Young, Rebecca; Arnold, Charles D.; Patson, Noel; Jorgensen, Josh M.; Kortekangas, Emma; Chaima, David; Malamba, Chikondi; Ashorn, Ulla; Cheung, Yin B.; Ashorn, Per; Maleta, Kenneth; Dewey, Kathryn G.								Provision of Lipid-Based Nutrient Supplements to Mothers During Pregnancy and 6 Months Postpartum and to Their Infants from 6 to 18 Months Promotes Infant Gut Microbiota Diversity at 18 Months of Age but Not Microbiota Maturation in a Rural Malawian Setting: Secondary Outcomes of a Randomized Trial								JOURNAL OF NUTRITION				150	4			918	928		10.1093/jn/nxz298			APR 2020	2020	Background: Diet may alter the configuration of gut microbiota, but the impact of prenatal and postnatal nutritional interventions on infant gut microbiota has not been investigated. Objective: We evaluated whether providing lipid-based nutrient supplements (LNSs) to mother-infant dyads promotes a more diverse and mature infant gut microbiota, compared to maternal supplementation with multiple micronutrients (MMN) or iron and folic acid (IFA). Methods: We enrolled 869 pregnant women in a randomized trial in Malawi. There were 3 study groups, with women receiving 1 MMN capsule daily during pregnancy and 6 mo postpartum, or 1 LNS sachet (20 g) daily during pregnancy and 6 mo postpartum, or 1 IFA capsule daily (during pregnancy) then a placebo daily (postpartum). Infants in the LNS group received LNS from 6 to 18 mo; infants in the other groups did not receive supplements. The infants' fecal microbiota were characterized by PCR amplification and sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene (variable region 4). The primary outcomes were microbiota alpha diversity and maturation [as microbiota-for-age z score (MAZ)]. Specific associations of taxa with intervention were established with indicator species analysis (ISA). Results: Primary outcomes did not differ between IFA and MMN groups, so these groups were combined (IFA + MMN). Mean +/- SD alpha diversity was higher in the LNS group at 18 mo for Shannon index [3.01 +/- 0.57 (LNS) compared with 2.91 +/- 0.60 (IFA + MMN), P = 0.032] and Pielou's evenness index [0.61 +/- 0.08 (LNS) compared with 0.60 +/- 0.09 (IFA + MMN), P = 0.043]; no significant differences were observed at 1, 6, 12, or 30 mo. MAZ and beta diversity did not differ at any age. We found 10 and 3 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) positively associated with LNS and IFA + MMN, respectively; however, these associations became nonsignificant following false discovery rate correction at 10%. Conclusions: Prenatal and postnatal LNS intake promoted infant gut microbiota diversity at 18 mo, after 12 mo of child supplementation, but did not alter microbiota maturation.		[Kamng'ona, Arox W.] Univ Malawi, Coll Med, Dept Biomed Sci, Blantyre, Malawi; [Young, Rebecca; Arnold, Charles D.; Jorgensen, Josh M.; Dewey, Kathryn G.] Univ Calif Davis, Inst Global Nutr & Dept Nutr, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Patson, Noel; Chaima, David; Malamba, Chikondi; Maleta, Kenneth] Univ Malawi, Coll Med, Sch Publ Hlth & Family Med, Blantyre, Malawi; [Kortekangas, Emma; Ashorn, Ulla; Ashorn, Per] Univ Tampere, Ctr Child Hlth Res, Fac Med & Life Sci, Tampere 33100, Finland; [Cheung, Yin B.] Duke NUS Med Sch, Program Hlth Serv & Syst Res, Singapore 169857, Singapore; [Cheung, Yin B.] Duke NUS Med Sch, Ctr Quantitat Med, Singapore 169857, Singapore; [Ashorn, Per] Tampere Univ Hosp, Dept Pediat, Tampere 33520, Finland; [Kamng'ona, Arox W.] Univ Malawi, Coll Med, Dept Biomed Sci, Blantyre, Malawi								15							Nutrition & Dietetics	WOS:000526401800036		
J	Karuppasamy, K.; Jawahar, P.; Kingston, S. David; Venkataramani, V. K.; Vidhya, V.								Elasmobranch diversity, conservation and management along Wadge Bank, South India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF ANIMAL RESEARCH				54	3			367	372		10.18805/ijar.B-3778			MAR 2020	2020	The study was undertaken to document the elasmobranch diversity and their abundance along Wadge Bank. Species were collected fortnightly during June 2015 to May 2016 from three landing centres viz., Chinnamuttom,Colachel and Vizhinjam of Wadge Bank. A total of 1,575 specimens were collected during the period and 44 species were identified belonging to 8 orders, 13 families and 25 genera. Among the recorded \families,Carcharhinidae is the most dominant family with 12 species. The Colachel landing centre was rich in diversity with 43 species followed by Chinnamuttom 39 species and Vizhinjam26 species. The highest Shannon Weiner diversity (H' value) was observed at Colachel (4.17) followed by Chinnamuttom (4.11) and Vizhinjam (3.76). The Margalef's species richness ('d') value was assessed at Colachel (4.55) followed by Chinnamuttom (4.01) and Vizhinjam (2.91). The Pielou's evenness (J') estimated was 0.7786, 0.7700 and 0.8005respectively, for Chinnamuttom, Colachal and Vizhinjam. The highest taxonomic diversity value was observed at Colachel (60.33) and the lowest during at Vizhinjam (54.08). Among the three landing centres studied, the total phylogenetic diversity (sPhi+) was found to be the lowest at Vizhinjam (940) and highest at Colachel landing centre (1720). Bray Curtis similarities measure was also calculated, fish communities were separated into several dusters based on seasons. The conservation of elasmobranchs and the management measures to be followed along the Wadge Bank is also discussed.		[Karuppasamy, K.; Jawahar, P.; Kingston, S. David; Vidhya, V.] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Tuticorin 628008, Tamil Nadu, India; [Venkataramani, V. K.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Kochi 682506, Kerala, India; [Karuppasamy, K.] Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries Univ, Fisheries Coll & Res Inst, Tuticorin 628008, Tamil Nadu, India								3							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000522456700019		
J	Chai, Zhao Yang; Wang, Huan; Deng, Yunyan; Hu, Zhangxi; Tang, Ying Zhong								Harmful algal blooms significantly reduce the resource use efficiency in a coastal plankton community								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				704						135381	10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.135381			FEB 20 2020	2020	Harmful algal blooms (HABs) have been investigated for their catastrophic effects on public health and aquaculture intensively, but the research about HABs effects on the diversity patterns and intrinsic functions of the plankton community based on a species identification with high resolution and accuracy has been scarce. We therefore investigated the shifts of plankton diversity via pyrosequencing during and around a natural dinoflagellate (Prorocentrum donghaiense) bloom and analyzed the effect of P. donghaiense abundance on the operationally-defined resource use efficiency (RUE) of plankton community to test our hypothesis that outbreaks of HABs will reduce RUE of the plankton community via shifting the plankton community structure, species composition in particular. We found that the species diversity of eukaryotic plankton community was significantly decreased during the bloom, as reflected in OTU (operational taxonomic unit) richness, and Pielou's evenness index. Principal coordinates analysis indicated significant difference in plankton community structure between blooming and non-blooming periods. As hypothesized, the species richness was positively correlated to RUE (defined as the ratio of phytoplankton biomass to total phosphorus), and more importantly, the cell density of P. donghaiense exhibited significant negative correlation with RUE. Our results explicitly demonstrated HABs reduce RUE via reducing species richness (corresponding to a less occupancy of the trophic niches), which supports the previously documented notion that niche partitioning enhances RUE (a key ecosystem function). Also, our work provides striking evidence for the relationship between plankton species richness (or diversity) and community function (resource use efficiency) via studying on HABs, a natural but exceptional phenomenon, in addition to revealing a profound consequence of HABs. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Chai, Zhao Yang; Wang, Huan; Deng, Yunyan; Hu, Zhangxi; Tang, Ying Zhong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, CAS Key Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Deng, Yunyan; Hu, Zhangxi; Tang, Ying Zhong] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao 266237, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Deng, Yunyan; Hu, Zhangxi; Tang, Ying Zhong] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Huan] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Tang, Ying Zhong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, CAS Key Lab Marine Ecol & Environm Sci, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China								31							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000504672800070		
J	Babko, Roman; Szulzyk-Cieplak, Joanna; Danko, Yaroslav; Duda, Sylwia; Kirichenko-Babko, Marina; Lagod, Grzegorz								Evaluation of Stormwater System Influence on the River Using Algae								JOURNAL OF ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				21	2			214	221		10.12911/22998993/116353			FEB 2020	2020	One of the widespread sources of river pollution is the wastewater coming from both wastewater treatment plants and the stormwater system. Wastewater can vary significantly in composition and concentration of substances introduced into water bodies. Municipal effluents may contain significant amounts of organic matter and ammonia. Storm drains are diverse in composition and depend on the nature of the surface from which the water collects, but carry more suspended solids and less nutrients. The research was aimed at assessing the effect of surface runoff collected by the stormwater system from the territory of the city of Lublin on the Bystrica River using popular environmental indices, calculated on the basis of periphytonic algae species abundances: species number, Shannon's H, rarefied species number, Pielou's evenness, trophic diatom index (TDI). It was observed that the correspondence between a species diversity and the quality of the environment is not always straightforward. Therefore, the periphytonic algae diversity increases under the influence of runoff, as evidenced by the Shannon index. Nevertheless, pronounced changes are noted in the structure of the algal community, as shown by the Pielou index and NMDS. However, these changes in the structure are invisible if the trophic diatom index (TDI) is relied upon.		[Babko, Roman; Kirichenko-Babko, Marina] NAS Ukraine, Schmalhausen Inst Zool, B Khmelnitsky Str 15, UA-01030 Kiev, Ukraine; [Szulzyk-Cieplak, Joanna] Lublin Univ Technol, Fac Fundamentals Technol, Nadbystrzycka 38, PL-20618 Lublin, Poland; [Danko, Yaroslav] Sumy Makarenko State Pedag Univ, Romenska 87, UA-40002 Sumy, Ukraine; [Duda, Sylwia] Inst Rural Hlth Lublin, Dept Woman Hlth, Jaczewskiego 2, PL-20090 Lublin, Poland; [Lagod, Grzegorz] Lublin Univ Technol, Fac Environm Engn, Nadbystrzycka 40B, PL-20618 Lublin, Poland; [Szulzyk-Cieplak, Joanna] Lublin Univ Technol, Fac Fundamentals Technol, Nadbystrzycka 38, PL-20618 Lublin, Poland								2							Engineering, Environmental	WOS:000514828100026		
J	Hammond, Maame Esi; Pokorny, Radek; Dobrovolny, Lumir; Hiitola, Nina; Friedl, Michal								Effect of gap size on tree species diversity of natural regeneration - case study from Masaryk Training Forest Enterprise Krtiny								JOURNAL OF FOREST SCIENCE				66	10			407	419		10.17221/78/2020-JFS			2020	2020	Forest gaps remain the optimal forest management practice in modern forestry. Upon all the physical properties of forest gaps, the 'gap size' feature stands out as an essential property. The effect of gap size on tree species composition and diversity of natural regeneration in forest gaps of different sizes was investigated. Eight research forest gaps were selected from the Training Forest School Enterprise, also called Masaryk Forest in Krtiny, a temperate mixed forest in the Czech Republic. By given gap sizes, small (< 700 m(2)) and large gaps (>= 700 m(2)) were defined. Forty-one (41) regeneration microsites (RSs) of 1 m(2) circular area at 2 m intervals were demarcated within each forest gap. These RSs served as data collection points. From the total of eleven (11) species enumerated, large gaps obtained higher species composition (10) and diversity (Simpson = 0.5 1-D; Shannon = 1.0 H and Pielou's evenness = 0.5 J indices) records, yet, small gaps presented favourable conditions for prolific natural regeneration significantly. Light-adapted species demonstrated no significant difference (P > 0.05) between small and large gaps, however, intermediate and shade-tolerant species were significantly higher (P < 0.05) in small gaps. There were progressive declines in height growth of natural regeneration from 0-20 cm to 21-50 cm and 51+ cm in small and large gaps at R-2 = 99% and 88%, respectively. The development of herbaceous vegetation in small and large gaps had positive and negative effects on the natural regeneration of Fagus sylvatica and Abies alba species, respectively.		[Hammond, Maame Esi; Pokorny, Radek; Hiitola, Nina] Mendel Univ Brno, Fac Forestry & Wood Technol, Dept Silviculture, Brno, Czech Republic; [Friedl, Michal] Mendel Univ Brno, Fac Forestry & Wood Technol, Dept Forest Bot Dendrol & Geobiocoenol, Brno, Czech Republic; [Dobrovolny, Lumir] Training Forest Enterprise Masaryk Forest Krtiny, Krtiny, Czech Republic; [Hammond, Maame Esi] Mendel Univ Brno, Fac Forestry & Wood Technol, Dept Silviculture, Brno, Czech Republic								4							Forestry	WOS:000588956400002		
J	Psarev, A. M.; Eremeev, E. A.; Zinchenko, V. K.			IOP					Materials for the study of entomofauna of protected areas of Altai Krai: Ikonnikov Island								IOP Conference Series-Earth and Environmental Science				548						072073	10.1088/1755-1315/548/7/072073			2020	2020	Altai Krai is characterized by a low degree of knowledge of entomofauna of the protected areas (specially protected natural areas). The article presents, for the first time, the results of a study of necrophilous beetles on the territory of the natural monument "The confluence of the Biya and Katun rivers (Ikonnikov Island)". The collection of the material was carried out using soil baited pitfall traps. There were discovered 64 species from 7 families of Coleoptera. The most abundant in species was Staphylinidae (43.77% of the total number of species). Families Silphidae and Histeridae have significantly less number of species (20.31% and 12.5% respectively), as well as other families (Scarabaeidae, Leiodidae, Dermestidae, Hydrophilidae), which were represented by 3-5 species each. The most abundant in the number of specimens was Silphidae (Nicrophorus vespillo, N. vespilloides, Oiceoptoma thoracicum). Common and numerous were Anoplotrupes stercorosus, Aphodius rectus (Scarabaeidae), Sciodrepoides watsoni (Leiodidae), Hister unicolor, Saprinus semistriatus (Histeridae), Creophylus maxilosus (Staphylinidae). The estimation of the species richness, degree of dominance and evenness of species in the community of necrophilous Coleoptera showed medium values of Shannon index (H=2.6), Berger-Parker index (D=0.26) and Pielou's evenness index (E=0.44).		[Psarev, A. M.; Eremeev, E. A.] Shukshin Altai State Humanities Pedag Univ, V Korolenko St 53, Altai Krai, Biysk, Russia; [Zinchenko, V. K.] Russian Acad Sci, Siberian Zool Museum, Inst Anim Systemat & Ecol, Frunze Str 11, Novosibirsk, Russia; [Eremeev, E. A.] Shukshin Altai State Humanities Pedag Univ, V Korolenko St 53, Altai Krai, Biysk, Russia				3rd International Conference on Agribusiness, Environmental Engineering and Biotechnologies (AGRITECH)	JUN 18-20, 2020	Int & Russian Union Sci & Engn Assoc; Krasnoyarsk Reg Union Sci & Engn Assoc; Krasnoyarsk State Agrarian Univ; Krasnoyarsk Sci & Technol City Hall	Krasnoyarsk, RUSSIA	0							Agricultural Engineering; Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Food Science & Technology	WOS:000659907503052		
J	Bara, Y.; Bara, M.; Bensouilah, M.; Saheb, M.; Atoussi, S.; Houhamdi, M.								Assessments of physico-chemical parameters of Garaet Hadj Tahar wetland and their effect on waterbirds settlement								UKRAINIAN JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				10	2			33	39		10.15421/2020_60			2020	2020	This topic presented the relationship between physicochemical parameters and waterbirds assembling at Garaet Hadj Tahar (occidental Numidia, northeast of Algeria). Our data were collected from January 2018 to December 2018. Five physical parameters and four nutrient parameters, were measured at this wetland. We have noted 35 waterbirds species belonging to eleven family. All waterbirds of this wetland listed as least concern according to IUCN red list, except the three Anatidae key species with a conservation statuts: Aythya nyroca (near threatned), Oxyura leucocephala (endangered species) and Marmaronetta angustirostris (vulnerable). The maximum values of abundance, species richness, Shannon diversity index and Simpson diversity index were noted in wintering period but not for the Pielou's evenness index. Only five physicochemical parameters influenced the waterbirds population assembling at this wetland. Garaet Hadj Tahar wetland must getting more conservation interest and surveys in order to maintain the biodiversity of this hotspot wetland.		[Bara, Y.] Univ Oum El Bouaghi, Lab Ressources Nat & Amenagement Milieux Sensible, Oum El Bouaghi, Algeria; [Bara, Y.; Saheb, M.] Univ Oum El Bouaghi, Dept Nat & Life Sci, Oum El Bouaghi, Algeria; [Bara, M.; Atoussi, S.; Houhamdi, M.] Univ 8 Mai 1945 Guelma, Fac SNV STU, Lab Biol Eau & Environm LBEE, BP 401, Guelma 24000, Algeria; [Bensouilah, M.] Univ Annaba, Lab Ecobiol Marine Environm & Coastal Areas, Annaba, Algeria; [Bara, M.] Univ 8 Mai 1945 Guelma, Fac SNV STU, Lab Biol Eau & Environm LBEE, BP 401, Guelma 24000, Algeria								1							Biology	WOS:000548309900006		
J	Isheva, Tsvetelina; Uzunov, Yordan								DIATOM-BASED ECOLOGICAL STATUS ASSESSMENT OF INTERMITTENT SUB-MEDITERRANEAN RIVERS IN BULGARIA WITHIN TWO HYDROLOGICAL PERIODS								COMPTES RENDUS DE L ACADEMIE BULGARE DES SCIENCES				73	2			227	235		10.7546/CRABS.2020.02.11			2020	2020	The ecological status of intermittent sub-Mediterranean rivers in Southern Bulgaria using benthic diatoms was studied during two hydrological periods (spring and summer). Epilithic diatom samples from 49 sites (37 intermittent rivers) were analysed following European standard protocols. Taxonomic composition and relative abundance of benthic diatoms were determined. Taxa richness, Shannon's index of diversity and Pielou's evenness index were calculated and compared between the two sampling seasons. The ecological status was established, based on the values of the IPS metric, applying for the first time the most recently developed river type-specific scale for Bulgarian intermittent rivers.		[Isheva, Tsvetelina; Uzunov, Yordan] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Res, Dept Aquat Ecosyst, 2 Gagarin St, Sofia 1113, Bulgaria; [Isheva, Tsvetelina] Bulgarian Acad Sci, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Res, Dept Aquat Ecosyst, 2 Gagarin St, Sofia 1113, Bulgaria								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000518600900011		
J	Salvati, Luca; Carlucci, Margherita								Shaping Dimensions of Urban Complexity: The Role of Economic Structure and Socio-Demographic Local Contexts								SOCIAL INDICATORS RESEARCH				147	1			263	285		10.1007/s11205-019-02156-2			JAN 2020	2020	Diversification in urban functions-a key component of urban complexity-was analysed using Pielou's evenness indexes for 12 socioeconomic dimensions (economic structure, working classes, education, demographic structure by age, composition of non-native population by citizenship, distribution of personal incomes, land-use, land imperviousness, building use, vertical profile of buildings, building age, construction materials) at a local spatial scale in the Athens' metropolitan region, Greece. Urban and rural districts were found respectively the most and less diversified contexts, outlining a diversification gradient negatively associated with the distance from Athens. A canonical correlation analysis characterized local contexts with high and low diversification in socioeconomic functions. A spatially-explicit regression model finally demonstrates that local-scale complexity increases with urban concentration, population growth and average per-capita income. A multivariate analysis of individual dimensions of urban complexity is a promising tool to assess socioeconomic transformations in contemporary cities.		[Salvati, Luca] Council Agr Res & Econ CREA, Viale Santa Margher 80, I-52100 Arezzo, Italy; [Salvati, Luca] Czech Acad Sci, Global Change Res Inst, Lipova 9, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic; [Carlucci, Margherita] Sapienza Univ Rome, Dept Social & Econ Sci, Piazzale A Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Salvati, Luca] Council Agr Res & Econ CREA, Viale Santa Margher 80, I-52100 Arezzo, Italy; [Salvati, Luca] Czech Acad Sci, Global Change Res Inst, Lipova 9, Ceske Budejovice 37005, Czech Republic								12							Social Sciences, Interdisciplinary; Sociology	WOS:000511863600011		
J	Huelsmann, Marietta; Boutaud, Esteve; Buse, Joern; Frank, Kevin; Schuldt, Andreas; Assmann, Thorsten								Habitat continuity matters: Ancient woodlands tend to have higher biomass and catching rate of dung beetles, mainly driven by one large species								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				102						103501	10.1016/j.actao.2019.103501			JAN 2020	2020	Ancient woodlands differ from recent woodlands by numerous abiotic and biotic factors, including soil properties. Several animal species are more abundant in ancient than in recent woodlands, but this has been only rarely tested for saprophagous taxa and not at all for dung beetles, which are common in temperate woodlands. Beside habitat continuity, tree age can have also an effect on woodland inhabiting animals, especially on saprophagous taxa. To analyze the effects of both habitat continuity and tree age we studied dung beetles in a continuous north-west German woodland with baited pitfall traps on basis of a factorial design. We compared species diversity (Shannon-Wiener-Index and Pielou's Evenness), catching rates, biomass and community composition of dung beetles. With only 18 recorded species from 20 study plots, dung beetle communities were species-poor and dominated by one large tunnelling species. The main result is that catching rate and biomass of dung beetles were higher in ancient woodlands, which was due to the particularly high catching rate of the most dominant tunnelling species and one dweller species. Tree age alone had a minor impact, but affects significantly one rare species. Diverging habitat quality of ancient and recent woodlands likely explains differences in the communities of dung beetles in woodlands of different habitat continuity. Old trees in recent woodlands could not compensate for habitat continuity of ancient woodlands.		[Huelsmann, Marietta; Boutaud, Esteve; Schuldt, Andreas; Assmann, Thorsten] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol, Scharnhorststr 1, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany; [Buse, Joern] Nat Pk Schwarzwald, FB Okol Monitoring Forsch & Artenschutz, Kniebisstr 67, D-72250 Freudenstadt, Germany; [Frank, Kevin] Tech Univ Darmstadt, Ecol Networks, Biol, Schnittspahnstr 3, D-64287 Darmstadt, Germany; [Schuldt, Andreas] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Forest Nat Conservat, Busgenweg 3, D-37077 Gottingen, Germany; [Huelsmann, Marietta] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol, Scharnhorststr 1, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany								2							Ecology	WOS:000510313000009		
J	Emoyoma, U. O.; Numbere, A. O.; Woke, G. N.								Impact of Nypa Palm (<i>Nypa fruticans</i> Wurmb) and Mangroves Forest on Benthic Macro Invertebrate Community in Andoni River, Nigeria								INTERNATIONAL LETTERS OF NATURAL SCIENCES				77				51	62		10.18052/www.scipress.com/ILNS.77.51			2020	2020	It is postulated that the presence of nypa palm (Nypa palm) in mangrove forest affect the reproductive function of fish by inhibiting the growth of macro invertebrates. The impact of Nypa fruticans (Wurmb) and mangroves on the benthic macro invertebrate community of Andoni River was carried out between January and August, 2017. A total of four stations were chosen based on nypa palm and native mangrove species' presence and absence, station 1 (Open water), Station 2 (Nypa palm dominance), station 3 (Rhizophora and Avicennia dominance), Station 4 (Mixed). Results of water quality parameters include; pH 6.99 +/- 0.16, Temperature 28.20 +/- 0.05 degrees C, DO 4.71 +/- 0.18mg/L, Conductivity 19.52 +/- 0.20 mu m/s, Salinity 10.76 +/- 0.07ppt, TDS 13.45 +/- 0.27ppt. Mean values of the physico-chemical parameters (P > 0.05) were not significantly different. Twelve taxa of benthic macro-invertebrates in eleven families were collected. The crustaceans were more in diversity (38.46%), while bivalvia, pisces and oligochaete had the least percentage composition (7.69%). The gastropods were more in species dominance (44.69%), while the Oligochaeta were least in abundance (0.61%). Shannon Weiner's index across the stations for benthos was highest in station 2 (1.840) and lowest in station 1 (1.103). Simpson's index was highest in station 2 (1.990) and lowest in station 1 (1.938). Pielou's index of evenness was highest in station 2 (0.767) and lowest in station 1 (0.616). All the macro-invertebrates recorded were clean water and pollution tolerant species, and showed no significant difference across stations (P>0.05). In conclusion this study indicates that nypa palm does not affect the proliferation of macro invertebrates, which supports fishery population along the food chain.		[Emoyoma, U. O.; Numbere, A. O.; Woke, G. N.] Univ Port Harcourt, Dept Anim & Environm Biol, PMB 5323, Choba, Nigeria; [Numbere, A. O.] Univ Port Harcourt, Dept Anim & Environm Biol, PMB 5323, Choba, Nigeria								1							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000506917700004		
J	Blanco-Sacristan, Javier; Panigada, Cinzia; Tagliabue, Giulia; Gentili, Rodolfo; Colombo, Roberto; Ladron de Guevara, Monica; Maestre, Fernando T.; Rossini, Micol								Spectral Diversity Successfully Estimates the -Diversity of Biocrust-Forming Lichens								REMOTE SENSING				11	24					2942	10.3390/rs11242942			DEC 2 2019	2019	Biocrusts, topsoil communities formed by mosses, lichens, liverworts, algae, and cyanobacteria, are a key biotic component of dryland ecosystems worldwide. Experiments carried out with lichen- and moss-dominated biocrusts indicate that climate change may dramatically reduce their cover and diversity. Therefore, the development of reproducible methods to monitor changes in biocrust diversity and abundance across multiple spatio-temporal scales is key for evaluating how climate change may impact biocrust communities and the myriad of ecosystem functions and services that rely on them. In this study, we collected lichen-dominated biocrust samples from a semi-arid ecosystem in central Spain. Their alpha-diversity was then evaluated using very high spatial resolution hyperspectral images (pixel size of 0.091 mm) measured in laboratory under controlled conditions. Support vector machines were used to map the biocrust composition. Traditional alpha-diversity metrics (i.e., species richness, Shannon's, Simpson's, and Pielou's indices) were calculated using lichen fractional cover data derived from their classifications in the hyperspectral imagery. Spectral diversity was calculated at different wavelength ranges as the coefficient of variation of different regions of the reflectance spectra of lichens and as the standard deviation of the continuum removal algorithm (SD_CR). The accuracy of the classifications of the images obtained was close to 100%. The results showed the best coefficient of determination (r(2) = 0.47) between SD_CR calculated at 680 nm and the alpha-diversity calculated as the Simpson's index, which includes species richness and their evenness. These findings indicate that this spectral diversity index could be used to track spatio-temporal changes in lichen-dominated biocrust communities. Thus, they are the first step to monitor alpha-diversity of biocrust-forming lichens at the ecosystem and regional levels, a key task for any program aiming to evaluate changes in biodiversity and associated ecosystem services in drylands.		[Blanco-Sacristan, Javier; Panigada, Cinzia; Tagliabue, Giulia; Gentili, Rodolfo; Colombo, Roberto; Rossini, Micol] Univ Milano Bicocca, Remote Sensing Environm Dynam Lab, I-20126 Milan, Italy; [Ladron de Guevara, Monica] Univ Rey Juan Carlos, Mostoles 28933, Spain; [Ladron de Guevara, Monica] CREAF CSIC UAB, Ctr Ecol Res & Forestry Applicat, Barcelona 08193, Spain; [Maestre, Fernando T.] Univ Alicante, Dept Ecol, Alicante 03690, Spain; [Blanco-Sacristan, Javier] Univ Milano Bicocca, Remote Sensing Environm Dynam Lab, I-20126 Milan, Italy								12							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Remote Sensing; Imaging Science & Photographic Technology	WOS:000507333400058		
J	Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar; Das Chatterjee, Nilanjana; Dolui, Gour								Consequences of sand mining on water quality and instream biota in alluvial stream: a case-specific study in South Bengal River, India								SUSTAINABLE WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT				5	4			1815	1832		10.1007/s40899-019-00345-y			DEC 2019	2019	In this paper, an attempt has been made to document consequences of river sand mining on water quality and instream biota in an alluvial channel as Kangsabati River, India. Water Quality Index (WQI) is used to identify the adverse effects of water quality on species diversity, richness, and evenness of the aquatic community. Physicochemical parameters (PP) such as p(H), dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, electric conductivity, salinity, biological oxygen demand, magnesium cation, and turbidity are analyzed from 27 representative sampling stations as sandchar, mining, and pit sites along the upper, middle, and lower course. Pearson correlation indicates that p(H) and magnesium cation is the most significant parameters with WQI. Principal component analysis denotes good water quality (<50) concentrated in sandchar sites, while poor (50-70) and very poor (>70) water qualities are presence in mining and pit sites. Applying Simpson's index, Simpson's index of diversity, Simpson's reciprocal index, and Shannon-Wiener diversity index on instream biota, those vary from sandchar (0.19, 0.81, 5.57, and -1.34) to mining (0.11, 0.89, 9.23, and -1.39) and pit sites (0.12, 0.90, 10.68, and -1.50). Maximum Margalef's index of species indicated the richness of species types in mining sites (4.62), with minimum mean values in sandchar sites (3.64). Contrastingly, Pielou's evenness index is high in sandchar sites (-1.05) and low in mining sites (-1.49). Therefore, significant physicochemical parameters such as P-H, dissolved oxygen, magnesium cation, and electric conductivity changes the diversity index, species richness and evenness in mining and pit along the middle and lower courses caused by sand mining.		[Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar; Das Chatterjee, Nilanjana; Dolui, Gour] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Geog & Environm Management, Midnapore 721101, W Bengal, India; [Bhattacharya, Raj Kumar] Vidyasagar Univ, Dept Geog & Environm Management, Midnapore 721101, W Bengal, India								5							Water Resources	WOS:000494686800034		
J	Troast, Brittany; Paperno, Richard; Cook, Geoffrey S.								Multidecadal shifts in fish community diversity across a dynamic biogeographic transition zone								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				26	1			93	107		10.1111/ddi.13000			JAN 2020	2020	Aim A 21-year fisheries-independent monitoring dataset was used to explore fish community diversity across a latitudinal gradient to quantify how diversity has changed and relate those changes in diversity to changes in the abiotic environment. Additionally, this study spans a biogeographic transition zone, providing insight into future species assemblages across regions of relatively high species diversity. Location Indian River Lagoon, FL, USA. Methods Spatial and temporal beta diversity was quantified latitudinally with "best derived breaks" determined by using chronological cluster analyses. Multiple indices of alpha diversity were quantified, including species richness, Shannon diversity, Simpson diversity and Pielou's evenness. AIC model selection and environmental fit tests were performed to link patterns of diversity and species assemblages with the abiotic environment. Results Evidence of a biogeographic transition zone was supported by data spanning the entire study period; the largest break in species assemblage occurred near 28 degrees N. Fine-scale analyses using small and large seine catches were noisier than broad analyses but indicated a northern shift in location of the biogeographic transition zone. Beta diversity was generally dominated by species turnover/balance versus nestedness/gradient components, implying that changes were driven by species sorting associated with the physical environment. Excluding the summation of all environmental variables, temperature and dissolved oxygen best describe patterns of diversity and species composition. Main conclusions Over years less affected by disturbances, large and small seine catch data suggest the fish community assemblage and location of the biogeographic transition zone has shifted 9 and 21 km to the north. If the trends observed in these years were to continue from 1999 until the year 2100, a 111-243-km shift in fish communities could be expected. Variation in rates of movement based on gear type suggests novel species assemblages could ensue.		[Troast, Brittany; Cook, Geoffrey S.] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Biol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA; [Paperno, Richard] Florida Fish & Wildlife Conservat Commiss, Melbourne, FL USA; [Troast, Brittany] Univ Cent Florida, Dept Biol, Orlando, FL 32816 USA								14							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000493710100001		
J	Li, Meng; Lei, Yanli; Li, Tiegang; Jian, Zhimin								Impact of temperature on intertidal foraminifera: Results from laboratory culture experiment								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				520						151224	10.1016/j.jembe.2019.151224			NOV 2019	2019	The response of intertidal foraminifera and their morphological characteristics to temperature changes in laboratory microhabitats is poorly studied. Therefore, a benthic foraminiferal community from intertidal sediment of the Yellow Sea was cultured at five constant temperatures (6, 12, 18, 24, and 30 degrees C) under laboratory microcosm conditions. The culture experiment lasted for 100 days, and four replicates were set up in each temperature treatment. The response of the foraminiferal community (abundance, species richness, Margalef index, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and Pielou's evenness) and species composition to the different temperatures was studied. In total, 6771 living (stained) specimens of benthic foraminifera were obtained. Foraminiferal community abundance varied from 75 to 131 individuals/g dry sediment, at 6 degrees C and 18 degrees C, respectively. The statistical analysis showed that temperature had a significant effect on most of the foraminiferal community parameters (p < .01). Most of these parameters increased with an initial increase in temperature until 18 degrees C or 24 degrees C but then declined at subsequently warmer temperature. The percentage of living foraminifera among total assemblages generally decreased with increasing temperature. Additionally, species composition was also significantly altered. Temperature had a significantly positive effect on the porcelaneous taxa, while negative one on the hyaline ones. The dominant species (Ammonia aomoriensis, A. tepida, and A. beccarii) showed different optimal temperature limits; that is, Ammonia aomoriensis showed a broader temperature tolerance and a preference for lower temperature (6-12 degrees C), while Ammonia tepida preferred higher temperature (18-30 degrees C), and Ammonia beccarii had an intermediate range (12-18 degrees C). The results of morphometric study indicated that the dominant species responded to temperature in terms of both size and length/width ratio. The major and minor axes of A. beccarii significantly increased at a higher temperature, whereas the length/width ratio of the three dominant species decreased with increasing temperature. Our study indicates that rising temperature could significantly alter not only the community structure but also the chamber morphology of intertidal foraminifera.		[Li, Meng; Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Lab Marine Organism Taxon & Phylogeny, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] MNR, Inst Oceanog 1, Key Lab Marine Sedimentol & Environm Geol, Qingdao 266061, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Jian, Zhimin] Tongji Univ, State Key Lab Marine Geol, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266061, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Meng; Lei, Yanli] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] MNR, Inst Oceanog 1, Qingdao 266061, Shandong, Peoples R China								8							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000490045300010		
J	Richirt, Julien; Goberville, Eric; Ruiz-Gonzalez, Vania; Sautour, Benoit								Local changes in copepod composition and diversity in two coastal systems of Western Europe								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				227						106304	10.1016/j.ecss.2019.106304			OCT 31 2019	2019	While long-term monitoring is essential to improve our knowledge of marine ecosystems health, it remains challenging to summarise complex ecological data in order to characterise and understand biodiversity trends. To compile monitoring data across large numbers of species, scientists and policymakers mainly rely on diversity and species richness indices. This task may prove complicated however, as many indices exist and no individual metric undoubtedly emerges as the best overall. Here, using data from zooplankton surveys from 1998 to 2014, we examined year-to-year changes in copepod communities in two littoral ecosystems of Western Europe - the Arcachon Bay and the Gironde estuary - that share similar climate, but with different local ecological processes, especially hydrological conditions. We tested the ability of commonly used a and beta-diversity metrics, such as species richness, Pielou's evenness or Jaccard's index, to mirror year-to-year changes in species abundances and we detected a synchronous change in both copepod abundances and a-diversity that took place circa 2005 in the two sites. In response to changes in environmental conditions such as nutrients, salinity, river discharge or particulate matter, two opposite biodiversity trends were observed, with a decrease in copepod diversity in the Arcachon Bay but an increase in the downstream part of the Gironde estuary. Although diversity metrics allowed us to well detect trends, the use of multivariate approaches such as principal component analysis provided important information on how and why diversity fluctuates. Our study provides evidence that long-term monitoring programmes must be encouraged for optimising management and conservation actions such as the Marine Strategy Framework Directive and that more local comparative studies need to be initiated for better characterising diversity trajectories at very fine scales at which ecologists often work.		[Richirt, Julien; Ruiz-Gonzalez, Vania; Sautour, Benoit] Univ Bordeaux, UMR CNRS 5805, EPOC, Rue Geoffroy St Hilaire, F-33600 Pessac, France; [Richirt, Julien] Univ Angers, LPG BIAF, UMR CNRS 6112, F-49045 Angers, France; [Goberville, Eric] Univ Antilles, Unite Biol Organismes & Ecosyst Aquat BOREA, Museum Natl Hist Nat, CNRS,IRD,Sorbonne Univ,Univ Caen Normandie, CP53,61 Rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France; [Richirt, Julien] Univ Bordeaux, UMR CNRS 5805, EPOC, Rue Geoffroy St Hilaire, F-33600 Pessac, France; [Goberville, Eric] Univ Antilles, Unite Biol Organismes & Ecosyst Aquat BOREA, Museum Natl Hist Nat, CNRS,IRD,Sorbonne Univ,Univ Caen Normandie, CP53,61 Rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France								6							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000489190500003		
J	Araujo, Carolina C.; Gasalla, Maria A.								Biodiversity of cephalopod early-life stages across the Southeastern Brazilian Bight: spatio-temporal patterns in taxonomic richness								MARINE BIODIVERSITY				49	5			2429	2443		10.1007/s12526-019-00980-w			OCT 2019	2019	The diversity patterns of cephalopod early-life stages on the continental shelf of Southeastern Brazilian Bight (SBB, 22-25 degrees S) were investigated using a historical plankton archive of 22 oceanographic cruises carried out from 1974 to 2010. From 874 plankton samples, 438 were positive for cephalopod paralarvae (n=2116), which were identified to the lowest taxonomic level possible, totaling 15 taxa belonging to 11 families. Richness and diversity indexes (Shannon-Wiener, Simpson, Pielou's evenness) revealed a cross-shelf gradient, independent of season and latitude. Abundance k-dominance curves were consistent with this depth-related trend, resulting in high values of k-dominance for the inner shelf during both summer and winter. Two major assemblages were identified by cluster analyses: an inner shelf and a mid-outer shelf. During summer, the inner shelf assemblage was composed of neritic Loliginidae Lesueur, 1821 and epipelagic Argonautidae Tryon, 1879, while in winter, benthic Octopodidae Orbigny, 1840 replaced Argonautidae in importance. These data reveal a remarkable difference in Argonautidae and Octopodidae paralarvae abundance, suggesting a seasonal reproductive pattern for these cephalopods in the SBB. Mesopelagic Enoploteuthidae Pfeffer, 1900 and Ommastrephidae Steenstrup, 1857 characterized the mid-outer shelf assemblages both in summer and winter. Although based on a higher taxonomic level, the distribution of cephalopod paralarva families reflected not only oceanographic patterns of the SBB but also their adaptations and reproductive strategies. In particular, the cross-shelf gradient in cephalopod biodiversity reflects a more dynamic oceanographic conditions in inner shelf compared with mid-outer shelf ecosystems.		[Araujo, Carolina C.; Gasalla, Maria A.] Univ Sao Paulo, Grad Program Oceanog, Oceanog Inst, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Araujo, Carolina C.; Gasalla, Maria A.] Univ Sao Paulo, Oceanog Inst, Fisheries Ecosyst Lab, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Araujo, Carolina C.] Univ Sao Paulo, Grad Program Oceanog, Oceanog Inst, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Araujo, Carolina C.] Univ Sao Paulo, Oceanog Inst, Fisheries Ecosyst Lab, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil								1							Biodiversity Conservation; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000496938500026		
J	Zhong, Mingxing; Song, Jian; Zhou, Zhenxing; Ru, Jingyi; Zheng, Mengmei; Li, Ying; Hui, Dafeng; Wan, Shiqiang								Asymmetric responses of plant community structure and composition to precipitation variabilities in a semi-arid steppe								OECOLOGIA				191	3			697	708		10.1007/s00442-019-04520-y			NOV 2019	2019	Changing precipitation regimes can profoundly affect plant growth in terrestrial ecosystems, especially in arid and semi-arid regions. However, how changing precipitation, especially extreme precipitation events, alters plant diversity and community composition is still poorly understood. A 3-year field manipulative experiment with seven precipitation treatments, including - 60%, - 40%, - 20%, 0% (as a control), + 20%, + 40%, and + 60% of ambient growing-season precipitation, was conducted in a semi-arid steppe in the Mongolian Plateau. Results showed total plant community cover and forb cover were enhanced with increased precipitation and reduced under decreased precipitation, whereas grass cover was suppressed under the - 60% treatment only. Plant community and grass species richness were reduced by the - 60% treatment only. Moreover, our results demonstrated that total plant community cover was more sensitive to decreased than increased precipitation under normal and extreme precipitation change, and species richness was more sensitive to decreased than increased precipitation under extreme precipitation change. The community composition and low field water holding capacity may drive this asymmetric response. Accumulated changes in community cover may eventually lead to changes in species richness. However, compared to control, Shannon-Weiner index (H) did not respond to any precipitation treatment, and Pielou's evenness index (E) was reduced under the + 60% treatment across the 3 year, but not in each year. Thus, the findings suggest that plant biodiversity in the semi-arid steppe may have a strong resistance to precipitation pattern changes through adjusting its composition in a short term.		[Zhong, Mingxing; Zhou, Zhenxing; Ru, Jingyi; Zheng, Mengmei; Li, Ying; Wan, Shiqiang] Henan Univ, Coll Life Sci, Int Joint Res Lab Global Change Ecol, Kaifeng 475004, Henan, Peoples R China; [Song, Jian; Wan, Shiqiang] Hebei Univ, Coll Life Sci, Baoding 071002, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Hui, Dafeng] Tennessee State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Nashville, TN 37209 USA; [Wan, Shiqiang] Henan Univ, Coll Life Sci, Int Joint Res Lab Global Change Ecol, Kaifeng 475004, Henan, Peoples R China; [Wan, Shiqiang] Hebei Univ, Coll Life Sci, Baoding 071002, Hebei, Peoples R China								22							Ecology	WOS:000489456900001		
J	Wang, Hui; Liu, Shirong; Song, Zhanchao; Yang, Yujing; Wang, Jingxin; You, Yeming; Zhang, Xiao; Shi, Zuomin; Nong, You; Ming, Angang; Lu, Lihua; Cai, Daoxiong								Introducing nitrogen-fixing tree species and mixing with <i>Pinus massoniana</i> alters and evenly distributes various chemical compositions of soil organic carbon in a planted forest in southern China								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				449						117477	10.1016/j.foreco.2019.117477			OCT 1 2019	2019	There are potential effects of converting a planted-forest type from conifer to broadleaf or mixed-species on soil organic carbon (SOC) chemical composition, and the quantity and distribution of various chemical compositions of SOC remain uncertain. An afforestation experiment with different tree species (Pinus massoniana, Erythrophleurn fordii [N-fixing species], and mixed P. massoniana and E. fordii) was conducted in clear-cut sites of P. massoniana-planted forests in a subtropical region. Topsoil organic C quality and microbial diversity were assessed after eight years of afforestation. Referring to the species diversity index in the community, Pielou's evenness index was used for estimating the evenness of distribution of various organic C compositions in the total organic C of soil, litter, and fine roots. The proportions of alkyl C and carbonyl C in SOC, as well as the alkyl C/O-alkyl C (A/O-A) ratios and the distributed evenness of the four main SOC chemical compositions were higher in the monospecific E. fordii and mixed-species-planted forests than in the monospecific P. massoniana-planted forest. Positive relationships of the A/O-A ratio and the evenness of distribution of various SOC chemical compositions in the litter as well as fine root C quality were observed. Microbial biomass C was positively correlated with the labile SOC (O-alkyl C). Multivariate analysis showed that the fine roots had a closer correlation with the chemical composition of SOC than the litter. These results highlight that introducing native N-fixing broadleaf tree species and mixing N-fixing species into conifer forests probably enhances the SOC chemical stability. It also minimizes the risk of C decomposition posed by any one soil organic matter (SOM) constituent having a huge impact during climate change through increasing the proportion of recalcitrant C components and even distribution of various SOM chemical compositions.		[Wang, Hui; Liu, Shirong; Song, Zhanchao; Shi, Zuomin] Chinese Acad Forestry, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, Chinas State Forestry & Grassland Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, 2 Dongxiaofu, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yujing] Hubei Univ, Fac Resources & Environm Sci, Wuhan 430062, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Wang, Jingxin] West Virginia Univ, Div Forestry & Nat Resources, POB 6215, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; [You, Yeming] Guangxi Univ, Coll Forestry, Nanning 530004, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Xiao; Ming, Angang] Henan Univ, Coll Environm & Planning, Key Lab Geospatial Technol Middle & Lower Yellow, Kaifeng 475004, Henan, Peoples R China; [Nong, You; Lu, Lihua; Cai, Daoxiong] Chinese Acad Forestry, Guangxi Youyiguan Forest Ecosyst Natl Res Stn, Expt Ctr Trop Forestry, Pingxiang 532600, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Liu, Shirong] Chinese Acad Forestry, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, Chinas State Forestry & Grassland Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, 2 Dongxiaofu, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China								22							Forestry	WOS:000484647700039		
J	Ferreira, Marisa da Fonseca; Schmitz, Silke Salavati; Schoenebeck, Jeffrey Joseph; Clements, Dylan Neil; Campbell, Susan Mary; Gaylor, Donna Elaine; Mellanby, Richard J.; Gow, Adam George; Salavati, Mazdak								Lactulose drives a reversible reduction and qualitative modulation of the faecal microbiota diversity in healthy dogs								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				9						13350	10.1038/s41598-019-50090-7			SEP 16 2019	2019	Hepatic encephalopathy is a frequent and debilitating complication of liver disorders. Lactulose is an established and reasonably effective treatment, yet with incompletely understood mechanisms of action. The aims of this study were to examine how the faecal microbiota composition changed before, during and after lactulose treatment in a large animal model. Healthy, privately owned dogs (n = 18) completed a prospective cohort study. Faecal samples were collected weekly, while the subjects were either on their usual diet (week 1), or a standardised diet (weeks 2-9), with added oral lactulose in weeks 6-7. DNA extraction and 165 rRNA gene sequencing were undertaken. Faecal samples from week 7 had a significantly lower microbiota richness/diversity, based on observed operational taxonomic units, Shannon/Chaol indexes and Pielou's Evenness. Beta diversity based on UniFrac distances was significantly different in week 7 compared to weeks 1,5 and 9. At the phylum level, week 7 was associated with a significant increase of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, and a decrease of Bacteroidetes and Fusobacteria, when compared to weeks 5 and 9. In summary, we have shown that lactulose induces a reversible qualitative and quantitative change of the faecal microbiota, which may explain its clinical efficacy in the management of hepatic encephalopathy.		[Ferreira, Marisa da Fonseca; Schmitz, Silke Salavati; Schoenebeck, Jeffrey Joseph; Clements, Dylan Neil; Campbell, Susan Mary; Gaylor, Donna Elaine; Mellanby, Richard J.; Gow, Adam George; Salavati, Mazdak] Univ Edinburgh, Royal Dick Sch Vet Studies, Easter Bush Campus, Roslin EH25 9RG, Midlothian, Scotland; [Schmitz, Silke Salavati; Schoenebeck, Jeffrey Joseph; Clements, Dylan Neil; Campbell, Susan Mary; Gaylor, Donna Elaine; Mellanby, Richard J.; Gow, Adam George; Salavati, Mazdak] Univ Edinburgh, Roslin Inst, Easter Bush Campus, Roslin EH25 9RG, Midlothian, Scotland; [Ferreira, Marisa da Fonseca] Univ Edinburgh, Royal Dick Sch Vet Studies, Easter Bush Campus, Roslin EH25 9RG, Midlothian, Scotland								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000485861700004		
J	Napiorkowski, Pawel; Bakowska, Martyna; Mrozinska, Natalia; Szymanska, Monika; Kolarova, Nikola; Obolewski, Krystian								The Effect of Hydrological Connectivity on the Zooplankton Structure in Floodplain Lakes of a Regulated Large River (the Lower Vistula, Poland)								WATER				11	9					1924	10.3390/w11091924			SEP 2019	2019	The zooplankton community structure and diversity were analysed against the gradient of floodplain lakes connectivity and water level under different flood-pulse dynamics in the Vistula River. The lakes differed in terms of hydrology, among others in the degree/type of their connection with the river (permanent, temporary and no connection). The study was conducted during the growing seasons in the years 2006-2013 and involved the lower Vistula River and three floodplain lakes: isolated, transitional and connected. Water samples were collected biweekly from April to September. Zooplankton was the most diverse and abundant in the transitional lake (the highest Shannon alpha-diversity index H' and Pielou's evenness index J'). The gentle washing of the lakes might have stimulated the development of zooplankton in accordance with the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis. The diversity and density of zooplankton were higher in the connected lake compared to the isolated one. We confirmed the hypothesis that zooplankton should be more abundant and diverse in floodplain lakes connected with the river (or transitional) than in isolated ones. Zooplankton analyses indicated that hydrological conditions (flood-pulse regime) contributed most substantially to zooplankton diversity and density in the floodplain lakes of the lower Vistula valley.		[Napiorkowski, Pawel; Bakowska, Martyna; Mrozinska, Natalia; Szymanska, Monika; Kolarova, Nikola; Obolewski, Krystian] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Nat Sci, PL-85064 Bydgoszcz, Poland; [Napiorkowski, Pawel] Kazimierz Wielki Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Nat Sci, PL-85064 Bydgoszcz, Poland								18							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000488834400187		
J	Pedro da Silva, Fabio Sao; Ignacio, Itamar Garcia; Saggin Junior, Orivaldo Jose; Patreze, Camila Maistro								Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal diversity in tropical sand dune and restinga at Pero Beach in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil								FUNGAL ECOLOGY				40				150	158		10.1016/j.funeco.2018.12.003			AUG 2019	2019	The diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (sub-phylum Glomeromycotina) in two contrasting coastal ecosystems (dunes and restinga) at Pero Beach, Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil was evaluated at the end of the rainy (May) and dry (November) seasons, in 2014. A total of 22 species belonging to ten genera and five families were recorded. Glomus macrocarpum and Rhizoglomus microaggregatum had large biomass and frequencies of glomerospores at both sites. Glomerospore abundance was higher in the dry season in dunes and in the rainy season in restinga. Redundancy analysis revealed significant relationships between AMF-physical and chemical soil parameters. Shannon's index and Pielou's evenness indicated greater AMF diversity in dunes than restinga, despite the lower number of glomerospores in dunes. These results highlight the importance of knowing the AMF communities in different coastal ecosystems, especially in dunes, which due to the low vegetation cover are most frequently impacted by anthropic actions. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd and British Mycological Society. All rights reserved.		[Pedro da Silva, Fabio Sao; Patreze, Camila Maistro] Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro State UNIRIO, Ctr Life Sci & Hlth, Dept Bot, BR-22290255 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Ignacio, Itamar Garcia; Saggin Junior, Orivaldo Jose] Embrapa Agrobiol, Rodovia BR 465,Km 7, BR-23891000 Seropedica, RJ, Brazil; [Patreze, Camila Maistro] Fed Univ Rio de Janeiro State UNIRIO, Ctr Life Sci & Hlth, Dept Bot, BR-22290255 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								2							Ecology; Mycology	WOS:000473841600017		
J	Jiang, Zhibing; Du, Ping; Liao, Yibo; Liu, Qiang; Chen, Quanzhen; Shou, Lu; Zeng, Jiangning; Chen, Jianfang								Oyster farming control on phytoplankton bloom promoted by thermal discharge from a power plant in a eutrophic, semi-enclosed bay								WATER RESEARCH				159				1	9		10.1016/j.watres.2019.04.023			AUG 1 2019	2019	Temperature increase caused by thermal discharge from power plants promotes phytoplankton growth and frequent bloom in eutrophic subtropical waters, particularly in cold seasons. Suspension filter-feeding bivalves show size-selective grazing on phytoplankton. Thus, we hypothesized that algal bloom under thermal stimulation could be controlled and that phytoplankton community was structured by oyster farming. Here, ten cruises were conducted in two oyster farms (OFs) and control areas (CAS) adjacent to the Ninghai Power Plant in the upper section of Xiangshan Bay during 2009-2015. We found that thermal discharge induced severe winter algal blooms, Phytoplankton abundance and chlorophyll a (chla) were significantly lower (46.3% and 28.3%, respectively) in OF than in CA, indicating a high filtration efficiency by oysters and the associated biofouling assemblages. In addition, oyster farming significantly increased species richness (by 26.3%), Shannon-Wiener diversity (by 38.3%), and Pielou's evenness indices (by 28.8%) and reduced suspended solids (by 12.2%), total organic carbon (by 18.4%), dissolved inorganic nitrogen (by 1.5%), and phosphorus (by 3.7%). Furthermore, oyster farming considerably reduced (increased) micro-chla contribution (pheophytin/chla) by 34.8% (71.1%), suggesting a strong size-selective grazing on phytoplankton. Analysis of similarity revealed a significant difference in phytoplankton community composition between OF and CA. However, after the removal of culture rafts, all the abundance, chla, species diversity, dominant species, size structure, and community composition of phytoplankton showed no significant difference. Our study demonstrated that oyster farming effectively alleviated eutrophication and algal bloom and enhanced phytoplankton diversity, which provides guidance for aquaculture and ecological restoration in subtropical coastal eutrophic waters. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jiang, Zhibing; Du, Ping; Liao, Yibo; Liu, Qiang; Chen, Quanzhen; Shou, Lu; Zeng, Jiangning; Chen, Jianfang] Minist Nat Resources, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst & Biogeochem, State Ocean Adm, Inst Oceanog 2, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Zhibing; Du, Ping] Pilot Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol Qingdao, Funct Lab Marine Fisheries Sci & Food Prod Proc, Qingdao, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Zhibing; Liao, Yibo; Chen, Jianfang] Minist Nat Resources, State Key Lab Satellite Ocean Environm Dynam, Inst Oceanog 2, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Shou, Lu; Zeng, Jiangning] Minist Nat Resources, Key Lab Marine Ecosyst & Biogeochem, State Ocean Adm, Inst Oceanog 2, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								27							Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000472126200001		
J	Li, D.; Cai, K.; Li, X.; Giesy, J. P.; Niu, Z.; Cai, Y.; Dai, J.; Xu, D.; Zhou, X.; Liu, H.; Yu, H.								Influence of Environmental Variables on Benthic Macroinvertebrate Communities in a Shallow Eutrophic Lowland Lake (Ge Lake, China)								TECNOLOGIA Y CIENCIAS DEL AGUA				10	4			88	119		10.24850/j-tyca-2019-04-05			JUL-AUG 2019	2019	Shallow lowland lakes are critical components of the water cycle, providing an essential service function. However, the impacts of microcystin from phytoplankton communities on benthic macroinvertebrate community diversity and structure have seldom been investigated. During 2008-2012, the impacts of water environmental variables on the diversity of macrobenthic communities, including water temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, transparency, conductivity, the permanganate index, Chlorophyll a, total phosphorus, total nitrogen, and microcystin-LR (L for leucine and R for arginine), were measured in a typical shallow lowland lake, Ge Lake. The results of the present study demonstrated that there were 31 benthic macroinvertebrate taxa in Ge Lake, including 7 oligochaetes, 7 Mollusca, 14 chironomids, and 3 other taxa. Among the macrobenthic taxa in the benthic community, opportunistic taxa such as Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri are present and can occur at greater densities in disturbed habitats. However, a significant reduction/disappearance of sensitive and clean taxa was observed among the benthic macroinvertebrates. Water temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, ammonia nitrogen, transparency and total phosphorus were the main environmental variables influencing macrobenthic community structure, while water temperature, conductivity, ammonia nitrogen, Chlorophyll a, the permanganate index, total phosphorus and total nitrogen were the main factors that influenced macrobenthic community diversity indices (the numbers of taxa, Shannon's diversity index, Margalef's richness index, and Pielou's evenness index). Our results underscore the severity of the effects of human activity on Ge Lake and strongly suggest that restoring the benthic invertebrate community to previous conditions would require the control and reduction of environmental pollutants and nutrients in Ge Lake.		[Li, D.; Giesy, J. P.; Liu, H.; Yu, H.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Pollut Control & Resource Reuse, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Li, D.; Cai, K.; Li, X.; Niu, Z.] Jiangsu Environm Monitoring Ctr, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Giesy, J. P.] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Vet Biomed Sci & Toxicol Ctr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5B3, Canada; [Giesy, J. P.] Michigan State Univ, Dept Zool, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Giesy, J. P.] Michigan State Univ, Ctr Integrat Toxicol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Giesy, J. P.] Univ Hong Kong, Sch Biol Sci, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Cai, Y.] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Taihu Lab Lake Ecosyst Res, State Key Lab Lake Sci & Environm, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Dai, J.] Nanjing Hydraul Res Inst, State Key Lab Hydrol Water Resources & Hydraul En, Nanjing 210029, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Xu, D.] Changzhou Environm Monitoring Ctr, Changzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhou, X.] Tianjin Environm Monitoring Ctr, Tianjin, Peoples R China; [Yu, H.] Nanjing Univ, Sch Environm, State Key Lab Pollut Control & Resource Reuse, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								0							Engineering, Civil; Water Resources	WOS:000475852300005		
J	Liu, Keshao; Hou, Juzhi; Liu, Yongqin; Hu, Anyi; Wang, Mingda; Wang, Feng; Chen, Yuying; Gu, Zhengquan								Biogeography of the free-living and particle-attached bacteria in Tibetan lakes								FEMS MICROBIOLOGY ECOLOGY				95	7					fiz088	10.1093/femsec/fiz088			JUL 2019	2019	The free-living (FL) and particle-attached (PA) bacteria have different dispersal potentials and ecological roles in aquatic ecosystems. However, our knowledge of their diversity and regional biogeographic patterns in high-altitude alpine lakes is limited. In this study, to investigate the diversity and geographic patterns of the FL and PA bacterial communities and to quantify the relative influence of environmental filtering and dispersal limitation in shaping the FL and PA bacterial communities, we collected surface water samples from 26 lakes over 1000 kilometers on the Tibetan Plateau. The majority of sequences exclusively in the FL bacteria were Actinobacteria (29.4%), Proteobacteria (27.7%) and Bacteroidetes (21.6%), while sequences exclusively in the PA bacteria were dominated by Proteobacteria (57.9%). The alpha-diversity indices, including Shannon index and Pielou's evenness, were significantly lower in the FL bacteria than that in PA bacteria. The surrounding soils as an important potential source contributed more to the diversity of the PA bacteria than the FL bacteria. Both of the FL and PA bacterial communities exhibited a significant regional distance-decay pattern. Environmental filtering and dispersal limitation were significantly related to the spatial variation of the FL and PA bacterial communities, whereas the environmental filtering/dispersal limitation effect ratio was higher in the FL bacterial communities. Our study is the first to describe the regional-scale spatial variability and to identify the factors that drive regional variability of the FL and PA bacterial communities in Tibetan lakes.		[Liu, Keshao; Liu, Yongqin; Gu, Zhengquan] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Tibetan Plateau Res, Key Lab Tibetan Environm Changes & Land Surface P, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Liu, Keshao; Hou, Juzhi; Wang, Mingda; Wang, Feng; Chen, Yuying] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Alpine Ecol, Inst Tibetan Plateau Res, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Liu, Keshao; Hou, Juzhi; Liu, Yongqin; Wang, Mingda; Wang, Feng; Chen, Yuying; Gu, Zhengquan] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Hou, Juzhi; Liu, Yongqin] Chinese Acad Sci, CAS Ctr Excellence Tibetan Plateau Earth Sci, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Hu, Anyi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Urban Environm, Key Lab Urban Pollutant Convers, Xiamen 361021, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Liu, Yongqin] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Tibetan Plateau Res, Key Lab Tibetan Environm Changes & Land Surface P, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China								30							Microbiology	WOS:000484391300012		
J	Monteiro, L. B.; Tomba, J. A. S.; Nishimura, G.; Monteiro, R. S.; Foelkel, E.; Lavigne, C.								Faunistic analyses of fruit fly species (Diptera: Tephritidae) in orchards surrounded by Atlantic Forest fragments in the metropolitan region of Curitiba, Parana state, Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				79	3			395	403		10.1590/1519-6984.178458			JUL-SEP 2019	2019	The objective of this trial was to characterize the assemblage structure of fruit flies (Diptera: Tephritidae) by determining the diversity and faunal indices. Fruit flies were collected for ten years between 2003 and 2015 in six municipalities of the Metropolitan Region of Curitiba, Parana. The orchards were divided into three crop protection strategies: organic, conventional, and integrated pest management. The characteristic of each community was determined using the Shannon-Wiener, Margalef, and Pielou's indexes. The frequency, constancy, and dominance indexes were also determined. Biological material was analyzed using the explanatory variables: site, crop, plant protection strategy, and susceptibility period. A total of 8,089 fruit flies were collected, of which 4,681 were females. The species Anastrepha daciformis Bezzi, A. dissimilis Stone, A. distincta Greene and A. pickeli Lima were recorded for the first time in Parana State, the occurrence of three other species was recorded for the first time in the Metropolitan Region of Curitiba (A. montei Lima, A. obliqua Macquart, and A. sororcula Zucchi), in addition A. fraterculus (Wiedemann), A. grandis (Macquart) and Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann). A. fraterculus accounted for 98.5% of the collected species. Only A. fraterculus and A. sororcula were found in fruits. Fruit flies occurred predominantly in peach trees cultivated under organic conditions. The Shannon index indicated that the municipality of Cerro Azul had the highest diversity and richness whereas apple orchards had the lowest diversity. Crops cultivated under organic conditions exhibited the highest diversity whereas those cultivated under conventional conditions had the highest evenness index. The largest specimens number was collected during the period of crop susceptibility.		[Monteiro, L. B.; Tomba, J. A. S.; Nishimura, G.; Monteiro, R. S.; Foelkel, E.] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Dept Fitotecnia & Fitossanitarismo, Rua Funcionarios 1540, BR-80035050 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Lavigne, C.] INRA, UR 1115, Plantes & Syst Culture Horticoles PSH, F-84000 Avignon, France; [Monteiro, L. B.] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Dept Fitotecnia & Fitossanitarismo, Rua Funcionarios 1540, BR-80035050 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil								6							Biology	WOS:000463827800004		
J	Song, Yingying; Liu, Ruiying; Wang, Mengfei; Liu, Manqiang; Liu, Xianghui; Ge, Feng; Chen, Fajun								Effects of transgenic <i>Bt</i> rice lines with single <i>Cry1Ab</i> and fused <i>Cry1Ab</i>/<i>Cry1Ac</i> on the abundance dynamics and community diversity of soil mites								ARCHIVES OF AGRONOMY AND SOIL SCIENCE				66	5			586	599		10.1080/03650340.2019.1628345			APR 15 2020	2020	Risk assessment and ecological effects are a concern of transgenic rice. In this study, the effects of three lines of Bt rice expressing single Cry1Ab protein (Kemingdao: cv. KMD) and fused Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac proteins (Huahui 1: cv. HH1; Bt Shanyou 63: cv. Bt-SY63) on soil mite community were investigated under field conditions. Transgenic treatment (cv. Bt-rice vs. non-Bt rice) significantly decreased the community index of Margalef's richness (SR) of soil mite in KMD, and significantly increased the abundance and the community indexes of Shannon diversity (H'), Pielou's evenness (J) and SR of soil mite in Bt-SY63 (p < 0.05). Transgene type (cv. KMD vs. HH1) did not significantly affect the composition, abundance and the community index (p > 0.05). Breeding type (cv. HH1 vs. Bt-SY63) significantly changed the composition and markedly improved the abundance and the J value in Bt-SY63 (p < 0.05). However, seasonal and inter-annual changes were apparent, and the Bt effects were not consistent at all for the different plant backgrounds over a 2-year period. These results suggested that the cultivation of Bt rice has a significant but transient effect on soil mite community.		[Song, Yingying; Liu, Ruiying; Wang, Mengfei; Chen, Fajun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Dept Entomol, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Manqiang] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Soil Ecol Lab, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Liu, Xianghui; Ge, Feng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Chen, Fajun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Dept Entomol, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								1							Agronomy; Soil Science	WOS:000474051800001		
J	Abu Noman, Md; Mamunur, Rashid; Shahanul, M. Islam; Hossain, M. Belal								Spatial and seasonal distribution of intertidal macrobenthos with their biomass and functional feeding guilds in the Naf River estuary, Bangladesh								JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				37	3			1010	1023		10.1007/s00343-019-8063-7			MAY 2019	2019	The Naf River estuary is one of the most productive ecological ecosystems in Bangladesh providing an important feeding area for fishes and other aquatic animals. However, detailed information on macrobenthic communities is rarely available in this area. Our study focused on the seasonal and spatial variability of macrobenthic community structure with their biomass and functional guilds. In total, fortyseven taxa were identified under nine major groups and seven functional feeding guilds. Among macrobenthic taxa, Polychaeta was dominant in both seasons and all over the estuary contributing 60% of total benthos. The mean abundance of macrobenthos was higher during the pm-monsoon (2 972 +/- 1 994 inds./m(2)) than the monsoon (1 572 +/- 361 inds./m(2)) being maximum at mid-estuary region and minimum at upper and lower estuary regions. Of the diversity indices, density (P=0.01, P=0.003), the number of taxa (P=0.000 3, P=0.000 9) and Margalef's Index (P=0.000 4, P=0.001) of macrobenthos were significantly different among stations and seasons. Shannon-Weiner index (P=0.009, P=0.12) and Pielou's evenness index (P=0.03, P=0.14) had significant differences among stations but not among seasons. Cluster analysis suggested that distribution of macrofauna is strongly influenced by seasonality. Among the feeding types, carnivorous were found to be dominant at the upper and mid-estuarine regions, and herbivorous were at lower estuarine regions. Carnivorous species were dominant in both seasons. Omnivores have shown to be the most abundant feeding type in terms of biomass though herbivores were highest during monsoon.		[Abu Noman, Md] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Marine & Environm Sci, Tianjin 300072, Peoples R China; [Mamunur, Rashid; Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Sonapur, Bangladesh; [Shahanul, M. Islam] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Fac Food Engn & Biotechnol, Tianjin 300457, Peoples R China; [Hossain, M. Belal] Noakhali Sci & Technol Univ, Dept Fisheries & Marine Sci, Sonapur, Bangladesh								10							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000469401600023		
J	Boolukos, Corie M.; Lim, Aaron; O'Riordan, Ruth M.; Wheeler, Andrew J.								Cold-water corals in decline - A temporal (4 year) species abundance and biodiversity appraisal of complete photomosaiced cold-water coral reef on the Irish Margin								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS				146				44	54		10.1016/j.dsr.2019.03.004			APR 2019	2019	Scleractinian cold-water corals (CWCs), such as Lophelia pertusa and Madrepora oculata, build complex frameworks and carbonate mound habitats in the deep-sea and are regarded as deep-sea biodiversity hotspots. However, there is a paucity of research regarding temporal change in the biological composition of these CWC habitats and analysis of this change is critical, especially considering the anthropogenic influences impacting upon these vital habitats. This study is the first to analyse temporal biological change on a CWC mound at a small temporal (4 years) and large spatial (entire mound) scale. Video datasets were collected over the Piddington Mound of the Moira Mounds, Porcupine Seabight, offshore Ireland, in 2011 and 2015. 0.25 m(2) quadrats were placed on 510 screenshots from each year (1020 total). Species were identified and quantified. CTD data were also analysed to investigate potential contributory causes of change. There was a highly significant (P < 0.01) decline in average M. oculata percentage cover from 2011 (1.37 +/- 3.79%) to 2015 (0.70 +/- 2.76%); however, there was not a significant change (P = 0.74) in average L. pertusa percentage cover in 2011 (2.33 +/- 7.52%) when comparing it with 2015 (5.28 +/- 7.88%). Additionally, there was an increase in average percentage cover of two poriferan species, Aphrocallistes sp. and Hexadella sp., from 2011 (1.18 +/- 2.35%; 0.21 +/- 0.42%, respectively) to 2015 (2.15 +/- 3.48%; 0.33 +/- 0.55%, respectively) (P < 0.01 for both species). Shannon-Weiner and Pielou's Species Evenness diversity indices were generally higher in 2011 than in 2015. This overall decline in diversity and increase in poriferan abundances is attributed to the decline in M. oculata, which may have been influenced by altered environmental conditions in 2015, as indicated by the CTD data. Moreover, differing biological and ecological responses of L. pertusa and M. oculata to environmental changes were considered and discussed as possible contributors to the results observed for these two species. If M. oculata percentage cover declines linearly at the current rate (approximately 0.17% per year, if a constant decline in each of the four years), then by 2019, this species may be nearly absent from the Piddington Mound, which would have major effects on species' abundances, distributions, and biodiversity. Therefore, further research and continuous monitoring of the temporal change in biological composition within CWC reef/mound habitats are critical.		[Boolukos, Corie M.; Lim, Aaron; O'Riordan, Ruth M.; Wheeler, Andrew J.] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Distillery Fields, Cork, Ireland; [Lim, Aaron; Wheeler, Andrew J.] Univ Coll Cork, Irish Ctr Res Appl Geosci, Cork, Ireland; [Wheeler, Andrew J.] Univ Coll Cork, Marine & Renewable Energy Res Inst, Cork, Ireland; [Lim, Aaron; O'Riordan, Ruth M.; Wheeler, Andrew J.] Univ Coll Cork, Environm Res Inst, Cork, Ireland; [Boolukos, Corie M.] Univ Coll Cork, Sch Biol Earth & Environm Sci, Distillery Fields, Cork, Ireland								22							Oceanography	WOS:000467664600004		
J	He Yun-he; Gao Ping-lei; Qiang Sheng								An investigation of weed seed banks reveals similar potential weed community diversity among three different farmland types in Anhui Province, China								JOURNAL OF INTEGRATIVE AGRICULTURE				18	4			927	937		10.1016/S2095-3119(18)62073-8			APR 2019	2019	Crop type is one of main factors influencing weed community structure. However, the identity of weed communities associated with the cultivation of different crops in farmlands remains largely unclear. Afield survey of weed seed banks was conducted in 2 280 fields at 228 sites of 62 locations representing three different types of farmland (95 paddy, 73 summer-ripe, and 60 autumn-ripe farmlands) along the bank of the Yangtze River in Anhui Province, China. A total of 43 families and 174 species of weeds were found in these weed seed banks. A comparison of the composition of weed groups in the seed banks showed that the species number and density percentage of grass, sedge and broadleaf weed groups were similar among the different types of farmland. The seed banks of all three farmland types shared 71 common weed species, accounting for 40.80% of the total number of species. These common weeds, which were both associated and not associated with crops, accounted for 91.71% of the total dominance degree among all farmland types. The crop-associated weed species were distributed in all soil layers of each farmland type. The Shannon-Wiener index H' (description of species diversity which is more sensitive to dense species) and Pielou's evenness index J (description of species evenness) in summer-ripe farmland were similar to those in autumn-ripe farmland but differed from those in paddy farmland. However, the Simpson's index D (description of species diversity which is more sensitive to sparse species) was similar among all three farmland types. The results of similarity comparison indicated that although the aboveground weed community differed among the different cropping patterns, the weed species composition in the soil seed bank was still similar. Consequently, our results demonstrate that after the implementation of long-term monoculture patterns, weed species compositions in the soil seed bank in different farmlands become homogenized regardless of the crop type.		[He Yun-he; Gao Ping-lei; Qiang Sheng] Nanjing Agr Univ, Weed Res Lab, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [He Yun-he] Zhejiang Agr & Forestry Univ, Sch Landscape Architecture, Hangzhou 311300, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Qiang Sheng] Nanjing Agr Univ, Weed Res Lab, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								10							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000463610800022		
J	Novais, Maria Helena; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Morales, Eduardo A.; Potes, Miguel; Salgado, Rui; Morais, Manuela								Vertical distribution of benthic diatoms in a large reservoir (Alqueva, Southern Portugal) during thermal stratification								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				659				1242	1255		10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.12.251			APR 1 2019	2019	Freshwater diatom communities are known to respond to a wide range of environmental factors, however, the depth gradient is usually neglected and few studies are available, especially in large reservoirs. During the ALqueva hydrometeorological EXperiment (ALEX) field campaign, diatom communities were studied in the margins and in three platforms (from the surface to the bottom of the reservoir) located in the limnetic zone of the Alqueva reservoir, one of the largest artificial lakes in western Europe. A detailed meteorological and physico-chemical characterization of the reservoir was carried out from June to September in Summer 2014, when the reservoir was stratified, to relate these variables with diatom assemblages. Despite the large dimensions of the reservoir, no differences in the water physicochemical characteristics and diatom descriptors were detected among platforms. Small changes in diatom assemblages, ecological guilds, taxa richness and Shannon diversity index were observed between sampling campaigns. Nevertheless, differences in diatoms were detected along a depth gradient, both in terms of diatom assemblages and ecological guilds. Taxa richness, Shannon diversity index, Pielou's evenness and Specific Pollution sensitivity Index (SPI) also differed with depth, with the lowest values of all indices detected at surface samples, increasing with depth, reaching the highest values at 20 m for taxa richness, Shannon diversity and Pielou's evenness indices. (c) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Novais, Maria Helena; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Morales, Eduardo A.; Potes, Miguel; Salgado, Rui; Morais, Manuela] Univ Evora, Inst Earth Sci ICT, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Novais, Maria Helena; Penha, Alexandra Marcha; Morales, Eduardo A.; Morais, Manuela] Univ Evora, Water Lab, PITE Rua Barba Rala 1, P-7005345 Evora, Portugal; [Salgado, Rui] Univ Evora, Dept Phys, ECT, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Novais, Maria Helena] Univ Evora, Inst Earth Sci ICT, Rua Romao Ramalho 59, P-7000671 Evora, Portugal; [Novais, Maria Helena] Univ Evora, Water Lab, PITE Rua Barba Rala 1, P-7005345 Evora, Portugal								7							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000457293700120		
J	Jeanne, Thomas; Parent, Serge-Etienne; Hogue, Richard								Using a soil bacterial species balance index to estimate potato crop productivity								PLOS ONE				14	3					e0214089	10.1371/journal.pone.0214089			MAR 22 2019	2019	The development of 'molecular-omic' tools and computing analysis platforms have greatly enhanced our ability to assess the impacts of agricultural practices and crop management protocols on soil microbial diversity. However, biotic factors are rarely factored into agricultural management models. Today it is possible to identify specific microbiomes and define biotic components that contribute to soil quality. We assessed the bacterial diversity of soils in 51 potato production plots. We describe a strategy for identifying a potato-crop-productivity bacterial species balance index based on amplicon sequence variants. We observed a significant impact of soil texture balances on potato yields; however, the Shannon and Chao1 richness indices and Pielou's evenness index poorly correlated with these yields. Nonetheless, we were able to estimate the portion of the total bacterial microbiome related to potato yield using an integrated species balances index derived from the elements of the bacterial microbiome that positively or negatively correlate with residual potato yields. This innovative strategy based on a microbiome selection procedure greatly enhances our ability to interpret the impact of agricultural practices and cropping system management choices on microbial diversity and potato yield. This strategy provides an additional tool that will aid growers and the broader agricultural sector in their decision-making processes concerning the soil quality and crop productivity.		[Jeanne, Thomas; Hogue, Richard] IRDA, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Parent, Serge-Etienne] Univ Laval, Quebec City, PQ, Canada; [Jeanne, Thomas] IRDA, Quebec City, PQ, Canada								19							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000462000400035		
J	Makdoh, Ksanbok; Kayang, Highland								Diversity of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Trap Cultures Prepared from Abandoned Coalmine Overburden Spoils								JOURNAL OF PURE AND APPLIED MICROBIOLOGY				13	1			629	636		10.22207/JPAM.13.1.72			MAR 2019	2019	Assessment of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) diversity in fragile ecosystem and polluted environment is important since they play an important role in the establishment of vegetation and initiation of nutrient cycling for the development of self-sustaining ecosystem. In our present study we assessed the AMF diversity in coal mine abandoned overburden spoils of different age groups viz. 2 years, 10 years and 15 years abandoned site and an un-mined site, through trap culture using Oryza sativa L. and Zea mays L. as host plants. Spore density increases with the increase in age of overburden spoils. Five genera of AMF were isolated v.i.z. Acaulospora, Claroideoglomus, Funneliformis, Glomus and Rhizophagus, where, Acaulospora and Glomus were dominant. In both the trap plants un-mined site derived inoculum showed highest Shannon-Wiener Diversity index and Pielou's Evenness Index value whereas 2 years abandoned site derived inoculum showed lowest diversity index. In case of Simpson's dominance index, 10 years abandoned site derived inoculum has the highest value in Z. mays and 2 years abandoned site derived inoculum has the highest value in O. sativa trap culture respectively. Comparing the two trap plants, O. sativa showed higher colonization percentage, spore density and diversity index indicating that it has a capability to develop maximum interaction with study site derived inoculum. The dominant AMF species can further be utilized in studies for reclamation of abandoned coal mine overburden spoils.		[Makdoh, Ksanbok; Kayang, Highland] North Eastern Hill Univ, Ctr Adv Studies Bot, Shillong 793022, Meghalaya, India; [Makdoh, Ksanbok] North Eastern Hill Univ, Ctr Adv Studies Bot, Shillong 793022, Meghalaya, India								0							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Microbiology	WOS:000463024400072		
J	Chowdhary, Kanika; Kaushik, Nutan								Diversity and Antifungal Activity of Fungal Endophytes of <i>Asparagus racemosus</i> Willd								AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH				8	1			27	35		10.1007/s40003-018-0341-7			MAR 2019	2019	Endophytic microbes are hosted inside plants in a symbiotic and hugely benefitting relationship. In the present work, 60 asymptomatic fungi representing nine different genera were isolated from 286 plant tissues of Asparagus racemosus. Fungal endophytes were identified by ITS rDNA sequencing. Penicillium sp. was the most dominant fungus. Tissue specificity was observed by principal component analysis. Cluster analysis revealed correlation between fungal species abundance and mean temperature. Highest Shannon diversity was recorded in leaf tissues (H' = 1.279) from Delhi in 2010. Pielou's evenness index was highest in stem tissues sampled from Hyderabad in the first survey. Of the total number of isolates examined, 12% of fungal endophytes demonstrated antifungal activity against the causal agents of four distinctive plant diseases (grey mould, stem rot, root rot and wilting, i.e. Botrytis cinerea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Rhizoctonia solani and Fusarium oxysporum, respectively) in dual-culture bioassay. Penicillium sp. (isolate ARDS-2.3) and Aspergillus oryzae (isolate ARHS-1.1) displayed most effective antifungal activity with IC50 value ranging from 0.381 to 0.955 mg/ml against the broad-spectrum phytopathogens investigated.		[Chowdhary, Kanika] TERI Univ, Inst Area 5, New Delhi 110070, India; [Kaushik, Nutan] TERI, IHC, Lodhi Rd, New Delhi 110003, India; [Kaushik, Nutan] TERI, IHC, Lodhi Rd, New Delhi 110003, India								1							Agronomy	WOS:000462132600004		
J	Mahood, Adam L.; Balch, Jennifer K.								Repeated fires reduce plant diversity in low-elevation Wyoming big sagebrush ecosystems (1984-2014)								ECOSPHERE				10	2					e02591	10.1002/ecs2.2591			FEB 2019	2019	Sagebrush is one of the most imperiled ecosystems in western North America, having lost about half of its original 62 million hectare extent. Annual grass invasions are known to be increasing wildfire occurrence and burned area, but the lasting effects (greater than five years post-fire) that the resulting reburns have on these plant communities are unclear. We created a fire history atlas from 31 yr (1984-2014) of Landsat-derived fire data to sample along a fire frequency gradient (zero to three fires) in an area of northern Nevada that has experienced frequent fire in this time period. Thirty-two percent of our study area (13,000 km(2)) burned in large fires (over 404 ha) at least once, 7% burned twice, and 2% burned three or more times. We collected plant abundance data at 28 plots (N = 7 per fire frequency), with an average time since fire of 17 yr. We examined fire's effect on plant diversity using species accumulation curves, alpha diversity (Shannon's dominance, Pielou's evenness, and number of species), and beta diversity (Whittaker, Simpson, and Z indexes). For composition, we used non-metric multidimensional scaling. We then used PERMANOVA models to examine how disturbance history, temperature, precipitation, and aridity around the time of the fire affected subsequent community composition and diversity. One fire fundamentally changed community composition and reduced species richness, and each subsequent fire reduced richness further. Alpha diversity decreased after one fire. Beta diversity dedined after the third fire. Cover of exotics was 10% higher in all burned plots, and native cover was 20% lower than in unburned plots, regardless of frequency. PERMANOVA models showed fire frequency and antecedent precipitation as the strongest predictors of beta diversity, while time since fire and vapor pressure deficit for the year of the fire were the strongest predictors of community composition. Given that a single fire has such a marked effect on species composition, and repeated fires reduce richness and beta diversity, we suggest that in lower elevation big sagebrush systems fire should be minimized as much as possible, perhaps even prescribed fire. Restoration efforts should be focused on timing with wet years on cooler, wetter sites.		[Mahood, Adam L.; Balch, Jennifer K.] Univ Colorado, Dept Geog, GUGG 110,260 UCB, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Mahood, Adam L.] Univ Colorado, Dept Geog, GUGG 110,260 UCB, Boulder, CO 80309 USA								57							Ecology	WOS:000461577000014		
J	Dong, Shuaishuai; Lei, Yanli; Li, Tiegang; Jian, Zhimin								Responses of benthic foraminifera to changes of temperature and salinity: Results from a laboratory culture experiment								SCIENCE CHINA-EARTH SCIENCES				62	2			459	472		10.1007/s11430-017-9269-3			FEB 2019	2019	The effects of temperature and salinity on intertidal foraminiferal community under laboratory conditions are poorly understood. We designed a two-factor crossed experiment in which foraminiferal communities were cultured at different temperatures (6, 12, and 18 degrees C) and salinities (15, 20, 25, and 30 psu) for 10 weeks. In total, 2616 living (stained) specimens were obtained and analyzed. Foraminiferal abundance ranged from 9 to 202 individuals/10 g wet weight of sediment. The highest abundance was obtained at 12 degrees C, 25 psu and the lowest at 6 degrees C, 15 psu. Statistical results demonstrated that temperature affected foraminiferal community more significantly than salinity. Most foraminiferal community parameters (abundance, species richness, Margalef index, and Shannon-Wiener diversity) were significantly positively correlated to temperature, but not to salinity, whereas Pielou's evenness was significantly negatively correlated to both temperature and salinity. The interactive effect of temperature and salinity on foraminiferal abundance was significant. In addition, with increasing temperature, the species composition shifted from hyaline Rotaliida to porcellaneous Miliolida. The abundance of dominant species (e.g., Ammonia aomoriensis, A. beccarii, and Quinqueloculina seminula) showed significant positive correlations to temperature. Our study indicated that the intertidal foraminiferal community responds sensitively and rapidly to the changes of salinity and, especially, temperature by shifting foraminiferal species composition and altering the community parameters.		[Dong, Shuaishuai; Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Dept Marine Organism Taxon & Phylogeny, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] SOA, Key Lab Marine Sedimentol & Environm Geol, Inst Oceanog 1, Qingdao 266061, Peoples R China; [Jian, Zhimin] Tongji Univ, State Key Lab Marine Geol, Shanghai 200092, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Geol, Qingdao 266061, Peoples R China; [Dong, Shuaishuai; Lei, Yanli; Li, Tiegang] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Dong, Shuaishuai; Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Dept Marine Organism Taxon & Phylogeny, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] SOA, Key Lab Marine Sedimentol & Environm Geol, Inst Oceanog 1, Qingdao 266061, Peoples R China; [Li, Tiegang] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Geol, Qingdao 266061, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli; Li, Tiegang] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Lei, Yanli] Chinese Acad Sci, Ctr Ocean Mega Sci, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China								15							Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000458813200010		
J	Sandeep, K. P.; KumaraguruVasangam, K. P.; Kumararaja, P.; Dayal, J. Syama; Sreekanth, G. B.; Ambasankar, K.; Vijayan, K. K.								Microalgal diversity of a tropical estuary in south India with special reference to isolation of potential species for aquaculture								JOURNAL OF COASTAL CONSERVATION				23	1			253	267		10.1007/s11852-018-0655-4			FEB 2019	2019	The present study unravels the microalgal diversity and dynamics of a tropical estuarine ecosystem (Muttukadu, of Indian south east coast) and applies tools like isolation of useful species to utilize in aquaculture as well as to conserve the native strains. The study was carried out for a period of 18months. Selected diversity indices (Simpson index, Dominance index, Shannon- Weiner index, Pielou's evenness index and Margalef richness index) were used to describe the trends of diversity in the estuary during the study period. Spatial and temporal changes in microalgal diversity in the estuary were analysed. Sixty three species of microalgae belonging to Chlorophyceae, Bacillariophyceae, Cyanophyceae, Dinophyceae, Euglenophyceae, Eustigmatophyceae, Prymnesiophyceae, Prasinophyceae and Zygnematophyceae were identified. Out of these, members of Bacillariophyceae formed the dominant flora (48.5%) with twenty six species, followed by Cyanophyceae (29.2%) and Chlorophyceae (13.6%). The species diversity was increased after the flood during December-2015 in south east coast of India. More than two dozens of microalgal strains useful for larval nutrition in aquaculture were isolated during the study period. Nutrient profiling of isolates revealed the presence of essential fatty acids (EPA & DHA) in high percentage in some of the isolates. Altogether, the present study is the first report of this kind from Muttukadu which gives the insight on a) the seasonal changes in abundance of microalgae species in a tropical estuary and b) suitable time for the isolation of potential species for aquaculture and conservation of various species in the laboratory conditions.		[Sandeep, K. P.; KumaraguruVasangam, K. P.; Kumararaja, P.; Dayal, J. Syama; Ambasankar, K.; Vijayan, K. K.] ICAR Res Complex, CIBA, Chennai, India; [Sreekanth, G. B.] ICAR Res Complex, CCARI, Old Goa, Goa, India; [Sandeep, K. P.] ICAR Res Complex, CIBA, Chennai, India								7							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000457407400019		
J	Niu, Yiping; Ren, Guodong; Lin, Giulia; Di Biase, Letizia; Fattorini, Simone								Community structure of tenebrionid beetles in the Ulan Buh Desert (Inner Mongolia, China) (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae)								FRAGMENTA ENTOMOLOGICA				51	2			193	200		10.4081/fe.2019.380			2019	2019	Tenebrionids are a conspicuous faunal component of Central Asian deserts, but little is known about their community ecology. We investigated how tenebrionid community structure varied along a vegetational gradient in the Ulan Buh Desert (Gobi Desert). Sampling was done with pitfall traps in three sites with different vegetation cover. Species abundance distributions were fitted by the geometric series model, which expresses the "niche pre-emption" hypothesis. Community structure was investigated using different measures of diversity (number of species, Margaleff richness and Shannon-Weaner index), dominance (Simpson and Berger-Parker indexes) and evenness (Pielou's index). The observed tenebrionid species richness was similar to that known from other Gobi Desert sites. The three investigated sites have similar species-abundance patterns, but the most dominant species varied among them. This suggests that the local environment operates a filtering action on the same basic fauna, allowing different species to dominate under different conditions. Overall, the highest total abundance was observed in the true desert site, however this site had a community structure similar to that observed in the site with more vegetation. By contrast, the investigated site with intermediate conditions showed a higher diversity and evenness, and a lower dominance. Thus, intermediate conditions of plant cover favour tenebrionid diversity, whereas a dense cover or a very sparse cover increases the dominance.		[Niu, Yiping; Ren, Guodong] Hebei Univ, Coll Life Sci, Baoding 071002, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Niu, Yiping; Ren, Guodong] Museum Hebei Univ, Baoding 071002, Hebei, Peoples R China; [Lin, Giulia] Via Principe Amedeo 175, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Di Biase, Letizia; Fattorini, Simone] Univ Aquila, Dept Life Hlth & Environm Sci, Via Vetoio, I-67100 Laquila, Italy; [Fattorini, Simone] Univ Aquila, Dept Life Hlth & Environm Sci, Via Vetoio, I-67100 Laquila, Italy								4							Entomology; Zoology	WOS:000500284700007		
J	Albayrak, Serhat; Caglar, Senem; Mulayim, Aysegul; Kurt-Sahin, Guley; Balkis, Husamettin; Cinar, Nur Findik; Atabay, Hakan; Tutak, Bilge; Bahceci, Humeyra								A CASE STUDY: ECOLOGICAL QUALITY STATUS OF SUSURLUK RIVER BASIN (MARMARA SEA)								FRESENIUS ENVIRONMENTAL BULLETIN				28	2			769	776					2019	2019	This study was carried out with the aim of determining the Ecological Quality Status (EQS) of coastal transitional waters of Susurluk River Basin (Marmara Sea). Macrozoobenthic invertebrate material was collected in May of 2013 from six stations in triplicate by means of a van Veen grab. Shannon-Weaver Diversity Index and associated Pielou's Evenness Index together with biotic indices AMBI and BENTIX were calculated. Some ecological variables (Secchi disc depth, temperature, salinity, dissolved oxygen, pH, total phosphorus, total nitrogen, silica, Chlorophyll-a) of the sea water and total organic carbon of the sediment were also measured. Ecological Quality Status at each station was assessed by considering individual dominancy of sensitive and tolerant species, results from univariate/biotic indexes and some ecological parameters. When EQS of the basin is evaluated as a whole, it was seen that there was not any station in "Good" or "High" EQS at the study area, stations were in "Poor" or "Bad" EQS at the stations where the River meets the sea, while the stations off the River mouth were in "Moderate" EQS. Both species pattern of macrozoobenthic invertebrate communities and ecological parameters determined in the basin such as TOC and nutrients present the negative impacts of the River over the basin and indicate the necessity of efficient precautions to be taken.		[Albayrak, Serhat; Caglar, Senem; Mulayim, Aysegul; Balkis, Husamettin] Istanbul Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, TR-34134 Istanbul, Turkey; [Kurt-Sahin, Guley] Sinop Univ, Fac Arts & Sci, Dept Biol, TR-57000 Sinop, Turkey; [Cinar, Nur Findik; Atabay, Hakan] TUBITAK Marmara Res Ctr, Environm & Cleaner Prod Inst, TR-41470 Gebze, Kocaeli, Turkey; [Tutak, Bilge] Istanbul Tech Univ, Fac Naval Architecture & Ocean Engn, TR-80626 Istanbul, Turkey; [Bahceci, Humeyra] Minist Forestry & Water Affairs, Directorate Gen Water Management, TR-06560 Ankara, Turkey; [Albayrak, Serhat] Istanbul Univ, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, TR-34134 Istanbul, Turkey				19th International MESAEP Symposium on Environmental Pollution and its Impact on Life in the Mediterranean Region	OCT 04-06, 2017	Mediterranean Sci Assoc Environm Protect	Natl Res Council Headquarters, Rome, ITALY	7							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000461270700019		
J	Chen, Quan; Lin, Guangxuan; Ma, Keming; Chen, Pimao								Determining the Unsuitability of Exotic Cordgrass (<i>Spartina alterniflora</i>) for Avifauna in a Mangrove Wetland Ecosystem								JOURNAL OF COASTAL RESEARCH				35	1			177	185		10.2112/JCOASTRES-D-17-00203.1			JAN 2019	2019	Avifauna are essential for maintaining the structure and functioning of mangrove ecosystems, which are particularly sensitive to habitat transformation. Although exotic cordgrass, Spartina alterniflora, is an increasing threat to mangrove ecosystems (including the associated unvegetated shoals) of China, its effects on the avifauna in such ecosystems are poorly understood. In Zhanjiang, China, the avifaunal Shannon-Weiner diversity, Simpson's diversity, Margalef's species richness, Pielou's evenness and density indices were compared in (1) an Avicennia marina monoculture vs. an S. alterniflora-invaded A. marina stand (a mixture of A. marina and S. alterniflora) and (2) an unvegetated shoal vs. an S. alterniflora-invaded shoal that had rapidly become an S. alterniflora monoculture. All avifaunal community parameters except for the Simpson index were significantly lower in the S. alterniflora thorn A. marina mixture than in the A. marina monoculture, and in the S. alterniflora monoculture than in the unvegetated shoal. These results indicate that the presence of S. alterniflora reduces the suitability of the Zhanjiang mangrove ecosystem for avifauna. Among the four habitats, the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, species richness, and density of the avifaunal community were highest in the unvegetated shoal. Further analysis indicated that the differences in the avifaunal community between invaded and noninvaded sites were associated with vegetation characteristics (mainly plant height and density) and macrobenthic faunal metrics (mainly species richness and density). The reduced avifaunal diversity and abundance associated with S. alterniflora invasion probably resulted from the decline in food resources or from the increased difficulty in foraging and roosting. The findings indicate that the conservation of birds in mangrove ecosystems may depend on controlling or eradicating exotic S. alterniflora, maintaining tidal mudflats, and diversifying the habitats in mangrove wetlands.		[Chen, Quan; Ma, Keming] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Chen, Quan; Chen, Pimao] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Key Lab Marine Ranch Technol, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Lin, Guangxuan] Zhanjiang Mangrove Natl Nat Reserve, Zhanjiang 524033, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Chinese Acad Sci, Res Ctr Ecoenvironm Sci, State Key Lab Urban & Reg Ecol, Beijing 100085, Peoples R China; [Ma, Keming] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China								3							Environmental Sciences; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000457248700017		
J	Kieltyk, Piotr; Delimat, Anna								Impact of the alien plant <i>Impatiens glandulifera</i> on species diversity of invaded vegetation in the northern foothills of the Tatra Mountains, Central Europe								PLANT ECOLOGY				220	1			1	12		10.1007/s11258-018-0898-z			JAN 2019	2019	The impact of exotic annual Impatiens glandulifera on invaded European vegetation is ambiguous; there are studies reporting considerable negative as well as weak or even no impact of this invader on species richness and diversity of the invaded communities. The effect of invasion by I. glandulifera on species richness, diversity and the composition of resident vegetation was studied in the northern foothills of the Tatra Mountains in southern Poland. Two approaches were used: comparing diversity measures of the invaded and uninvaded plots and analysing changes in species richness and diversity in plots grouped according to increasing cover percentage of I. glandulifera. Invaded plots harboured 0.27 fewer species per 4m(2) and had significantly reduced values of the Shannon and Simpson diversity indices and Pielou's measure of evenness. Analysis of changes in diversity measures with the increase in I. glandulifera cover revealed that an increase in I. glandulifera cover was from the onset related to a decrease in the diversity of the invaded plant communities, but after exceeding a 80% cover, this species dramatically reduced the diversity of the invaded vegetation. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis indicated a significant shift in the composition of invaded plots in relation to uninvaded plots, which resulted from the proportional increase in the more shade tolerant and nutrients demanding species. Our results suggest that in species-rich vegetation, such as fresh meadows and related communities, I. glandulifera may suppress weak competitors and, thus, negatively impact plant diversity.		[Kieltyk, Piotr] Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Woycickiego 1-3, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland; [Delimat, Anna] Polish Acad Sci, W Szafer Inst Bot, Lubicz 46, PL-31512 Krakow, Poland; [Kieltyk, Piotr] Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Woycickiego 1-3, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland								27							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000456987700001		
J	Delimat, Anna; Kieltyk, Piotr								Impact of troublesome expansive weed <i>Rumex alpinus</i> on species diversity of mountain pastures in Tatra National Park, Poland								BIOLOGIA				74	1			15	24		10.2478/s11756-018-0148-9			JAN 2019	2019	Alpine dock (Rumex alpinus) is a native plant species in many European mountain ranges. It comes from moist brushwood and open tall herb communities, though it has invaded mountain pastures. This troublesome weed forms permanent monodominant stands characterised by low nature conservation and agricultural values. However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no studies assessing the impact of R. alpinus on invaded communities. Therefore, in this study we examined the potential effect of an R. alpinus on species richness, diversity and the composition of invaded vegetation in Tatra National Park, Poland. Invaded plots dominated by R. alpinus had, compared to uninvaded control plots, significantly reduced species richness, as well as low Shannon and Simpson diversity and Pielou evenness indices' values; the species richness decline in the pairs of invaded-uninvaded plots was as much as 37.7%. Analysing changes in diversity from an increase in R. alpinus coverage revealed that Shannon, Simpson and Pielou's diversity indices' values did not considerably change up to 30% of R. alpinus coverage, but a further increase in R. alpinus coverage led to a steep decline in diversity. There was exception in a number of species per plot, which decreased steadily along with the increase of R. alpinus coverage. Multivariate analysis indicated a significant shift in the composition of invaded plots in relation to uninvaded plots, resulting from the shared increase of more shadow-tolerant and higher soil base-, nutrient- and moist-demanding species.		[Delimat, Anna] Polish Acad Sci, W Szafer Inst Bot, Lubicz 46, PL-31512 Krakow, Poland; [Kieltyk, Piotr] Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Woycickiego 1-3, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland; [Kieltyk, Piotr] Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Woycickiego 1-3, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland								6							Biology	WOS:000454779700002		
J	Beiroz, Wallace; Sayer, Emma; Slade, Eleanor M.; Audino, Livia; Braga, Rodrigo Fagundes; Louzada, Julio; Barlow, Jos								Spatial and temporal shifts in functional and taxonomic diversity of dung beetles in a human-modified tropical forest landscape								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				95				518	526		10.1016/j.ecolind.2018.07.062			DEC 2018	2018	Functional diversity is commonly used to assess the conservation value of ecosystems, but we have not yet established whether functional and taxonomic approaches are interchangeable or complementary to evaluate community dynamics over time and in response to disturbances. We used a five-year dataset of dung beetles from undisturbed forest, primary forest corridors, and Eucalyptus plantations to compare the sensitivity of conceptually equivalent metrics to temporal variation in different anthropogenic disturbances. We compared species richness with functional richness, Pielou's evenness with functional evenness, and Simpson's diversity with Rao's quadratic entropy. We assessed the sensitivity of the metrics to anthropogenic changes. The indices showed complex patterns among habitat types, with with similar responses in some cases and not in other, and little incongruence between the pairs within the same year. The influence of disturbance on longer-term temporal variation over the five-year period revealed lower temporal variation in functional than taxonomic metrics. Both approaches showed greater variation in plantations compared to native forests. We evaluated the variation in taxonomic and functional metrics between consecutive years and among habitats. Most metrics showed similar shifts between years in all habitats, except for species and functional richness. We demonstrate that even conceptually similar indices may not provide similar information on dung beetles responses to disturbance. However, the differences between the indices can yield key insights about the drivers of change, especially over the long-term. It is important to use taxonomic and functional diversity in tandem to better understand community responses to environmental and anthropogenic changes.		[Beiroz, Wallace; Audino, Livia; Braga, Rodrigo Fagundes; Louzada, Julio; Barlow, Jos] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Biol, Setor Ecol, Ecol & Conservacao Invertebrados, Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Beiroz, Wallace; Sayer, Emma; Slade, Eleanor M.; Louzada, Julio; Barlow, Jos] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster, Lancs, England; [Sayer, Emma] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Panama City, Panama; [Sayer, Emma] Open Univ, Dept Environm Earth & Ecosyst, Milton Keynes, Bucks, England; [Slade, Eleanor M.] Univ Oxford, Dept Zool, Oxford, Oxon, England; [Slade, Eleanor M.] Univ Oxford, Dept Zool, Oxford, Oxon, England; [Braga, Rodrigo Fagundes] Univ Estado Minas Gerais, Divinopolis, MG, Brazil; [Barlow, Jos] MCTIC Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Berlin, Para, Brazil; [Beiroz, Wallace] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Biol, Setor Ecol, Lab Ecol & Conservacao Invertebrados, Campus Univ, BR-37200000 Lavras, MG, Brazil								42							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000456907400050		
J	Suarez, Leonardo Rodriguez; Paladines Josa, Yuli Tatiana; Astudillo Samboni, Erika Judith; Lopez Cifuentes, Karla Dayana; Duran Bautista, Ervin Humprey; Suarez Salazar, Juan Carlos								Soil macrofauna under different land uses in the Colombian Amazon								PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA BRASILEIRA				53	12			1383	1391		10.1590/S0100-204X2018001200011			DEC 2018	2018	The objective of this work was to evaluate the soil macrofauna and the bioindicator taxonomic groups associated with different land uses in the Colombian Amazon Twelve agroforestry arrangements were studied and compared with to the native forest and pasture. For each land use, six monoliths were randomly selected and divided into four layers (litter, and 0-10, 10-20, and 20-30 cm soil depths). The variables considered in the analysis of land use effects were: individuals per square meter, order richness, Shannon's diversity index, and Pielou's evenness index. The greatest values for soil macrofauna density and diversity occurred in the forest, in contrast with the pasture. The principal component analysis distinguished land use according to macrofauna diversity, separating the native forest from the other land uses. The cluster analysis indicated the potential of some agroforestry systems to conserve the values of soil macrofauna density and diversity similar to those of the forest. According to the analysis of indicator value, five taxonomic groups (Diplura, Pseudoscorpionida, Araneae, Chilopoda, and Gastropoda), identified as bioindicators, are associated with preserved sites because of the sensitivity of their populations.		[Suarez, Leonardo Rodriguez; Paladines Josa, Yuli Tatiana; Astudillo Samboni, Erika Judith; Lopez Cifuentes, Karla Dayana; Duran Bautista, Ervin Humprey; Suarez Salazar, Juan Carlos] Univ Amazonia, Fac Ingn, Programa Ingn Agroecol, Calle 17 Diagonal 17 Con Carrera 3F, Florencia 180002, Colombia; [Suarez, Leonardo Rodriguez] Univ Amazonia, Fac Ingn, Programa Ingn Agroecol, Calle 17 Diagonal 17 Con Carrera 3F, Florencia 180002, Colombia								19							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000455011400011		
J	Kiranya, B.; Pramila, S.; Mullasseri, Sileesh								The diversity of finfish population in Poonthura estuary, south-west coast of India, Kerala								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				190	12					743	10.1007/s10661-018-7094-4			DEC 2018	2018	Quantitative measures of diversity are the ideal tools to reveal the community differences that are due to changes in the relative taxon abundance. The present study is an attempt to investigate the measures of finfish diversity of the Poonthura estuary, located in Thiruvananthapuram district of Kerala, India. Samples were collected using gill nets from three stations. Biodiversity indices such as Margalef's richness (d), Pielou's evenness (J'), Shannon diversity (H') loge(2), Simpson diversity (1-), Simpson dominance (), average taxonomic distinctness (o+), and variation in taxonomic distinctness (+) were worked out for monthly and seasonal data (pre-monsoon, monsoon, and post-monsoon). The ranges of species richness, evenness, Shannon diversity, and Simpson diversity and dominance were 2.30 to 4.51, 0.79 to 0.92, 2.52 to 3.42, 0.76 to 0.91, and 0.11 to 0.23 respectively. Considering the lacuna in information on this estuary, the results of the present study provide reference points for the measures of fish diversity for future studies. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) plotted to understand the seasonal and monthly variation of diversity. The clusters showed 40% similarity in the monthly samples, with the post-monsoon season showing the highest number of species. Various physicochemical parameters influenced the temporal fluctuations in diversity including seasons, river runoff, sewage discharge, and intrusion of saline water. Moreover, higher values of chlorophyll a is an indicator of eutrophication. Proper management inputs are necessary to sustain the resources along with pollution abatement measures for improving the livelihood support from this estuary.		[Kiranya, B.; Pramila, S.; Mullasseri, Sileesh] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India; [Kiranya, B.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India								6							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000451035200001		
J	Mirsepasi-Lauridsen, Hengaineh Chloe; Vrankx, Katleen; Engberg, Jorgen; Friis-Moller, Alice; Brynskov, Jorn; Nordgaard-Lassen, Inge; Petersen, Andreas Munk; Krogfelt, Karen Angeliki								Disease-Specific Enteric Microbiome Dysbiosis in Inflammatory Bowel Disease								FRONTIERS IN MEDICINE				5						304	10.3389/fmed.2018.00304			NOV 20 2018	2018	Inflammatory Bowel disease (IBD) is traditionally divided into Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). UC is a relapsing non-transmural inflammatory disease that is restricted to the colon and is characterized by flare-ups of bloody diarrhea. CD is a chronic, segmental localized granulomatous disease that can affect any part of the entire gastrointestinal tract. Ileo-anal pouch is a procedure restoring functionality of the rectum after a colectomy. IBD is a multifactorial disease and flares of IBD are probably triggered by changes in the intestinal microbiota followed by an abnormal immune response. In this study, we aim to analyze the intestinal bacterial diversity in IBD patients during various stages of disease compared with healthy controls. Permission for human experiments and recruitment of participants was obtained from the Ethic Committee for Copenhagen County hospitals (Permission no. KA-03019, Permission no. KA-20060159). Stools from 26 healthy controls, 42 CD, 38 UC and 18 pouch patients were collected. Stool DNA extraction was performed using Qiagen, DNA mini stool kit Denmark. DGGE-PCR amplifying the V2-V3 region of 16S-rDNA gene of the bacteria was amplified by universal primers HDA1 and HDA2. Analysis of DGGE was performed blinded using BioNumerics version 7.5. After normalization, a DGGE gel band matching was performed. The similarities between profiles were calculated with a ranked Pearson correlation coefficient based on the band matching results using band intensities. Simpson's index of diversity and Pielou's species evenness were calculated. Based on the Shannon Diversity Index, UC patients had lower species diversity and bacterial evenness in comparison to healthy persons, p < 0.05. However, only CD and disease pouch patients had lower species diversity compared to those with inactive disease and healthy controls. Well-functioning pouch patients had decreased species evenness in comparison. to diseased pouch patients and control group. During the active disease stage in CD and pouch, the patients have a low bacterial diversity in their gut when compared to the inactive stage. In UC patients, a generally low diversity was observed at all stages of the disease compared to healthy controls.		[Mirsepasi-Lauridsen, Hengaineh Chloe; Krogfelt, Karen Angeliki] Statens Serum Inst, Dept Bacteria Parasites & Fungi, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Vrankx, Katleen] Appl Maths NV, Sint Martens Latem, Belgium; [Engberg, Jorgen] Slagelse Hosp, Dept Clin Microbiol, Slagelse, Denmark; [Friis-Moller, Alice; Petersen, Andreas Munk] Hvidovre Univ Hosp, Dept Clin Microbiol, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Brynskov, Jorn] Herlev Univ Hosp, Dept Gastroenterol, Herlev, Denmark; [Nordgaard-Lassen, Inge; Petersen, Andreas Munk] Hvidovre Univ Hosp, Dept Gastroenterol, Hvidovre, Denmark; [Krogfelt, Karen Angeliki] Statens Serum Inst, Dept Bacteria Parasites & Fungi, Copenhagen, Denmark								32							Medicine, General & Internal	WOS:000450706900001		
J	Culha, Mehmet; Aksoy, Ozlem; Tatarhan, Gozde Ekin								Soft bottom mollusc assemblages (gastropoda-bivalvia) in marine shallow waters of the western turkey coast								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				47	11			2296	2304					NOV 2018	2018	The most dominant family was found to be Rissoidae with 10 species. Of the 105 species obtained stations, the most dominant species was Bittium reticulatum (26%) with 2226 specimens, followed by Mytilus galloprovincialis (11%) with 1022 specimens and Rissoa membranacea (8%) with 713 specimens, respectively. Shannon-Weaver's Diversity Index (H'), Pielou's Evenness Index (J'), Soyer's Frequency Index (F), Bray-Curtis Similarity Index and Pearson's Correlation Analysis were applied to the benthic mollusc fauna. Diversity index values (between 1.71 and 4.43) and evenness index values (between 0.38 and 0.82) were determined in the area. According to Bray Curtis similarity analysis there were 3 distinct species assemblages in the area. The number of individuals, diversity index value, gastropoda and bivalvia species were also positively correlated with temperature.		[Culha, Mehmet; Aksoy, Ozlem; Tatarhan, Gozde Ekin] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Fisheries, Izmir, Turkey; [Culha, Mehmet] Izmir Katip Celebi Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Fisheries, Izmir, Turkey								1							Oceanography	WOS:000454568900022		
J	Gogoi, Anudip; Sahoo, Uttam Kumar								Impact of anthropogenic disturbance on species diversity and vegetation structure of a lowland tropical rainforest of eastern Himalaya, India								JOURNAL OF MOUNTAIN SCIENCE				15	11			2453	2465		10.1007/s11629-017-4713-4			NOV 2018	2018	Impact of anthropogenic disturbance on species diversity and vegetation structure of a lowland tropical rainforest was studied in the foothills of Eastern Himalaya, India. Tree species richness, density, basal area and the diversity indices were found significantly (P<0.05) decreased with the increasing level of disturbances whereas, shrub density, basal area and herb density significantly increased with increasing disturbance level. In case of shrubs, Simpson's dominance index significantly (P<0.007) increased along the disturbance gradient, whereas Pielou's evenness index significantly (P<0.005) decreased with an increasing level of disturbance. Shannon-Weiner diversity index for herbs significantly (P<0.016) increased with increasing disturbance whereas, Simpson's dominance index was significantly (P<0.013) declined along the disturbance gradient. Results revealed that 10-50 cm dbh classes constituted the highest stem density, and highest basal area was recorded in the >100 cm dbh class in all three sites. Density of the matured trees decreased with increasing DBH whereas, tree basal area tended to increase with increasing DBH in all three sites. Tree species richness was highest in the lower DBH classes. 62.07% of the total tree species regenerated in the largely undisturbed site followed by 50% in the mildly disturbed and 26.32% in the highly disturbed site. The overall regeneration condition was found to be good in the largely undisturbed site. Mildly disturbed site exhibited fair regeneration and so was in the highly disturbed site. Discernable variations in species composition, diversity, regeneration and tree population structure revealed the impact of anthropogenic disturbances on rainforest vegetation dynamics. Higher degree of disturbance was furtherly found not only affecting species diversity but also promoting the growth of invasive weed species. Dominance of Hydnocarpus kurzii and Crypteronia paniculata in the highly disturbed site also indicated that these less-valued timber species may benefit from the vegetation mosaic produced by the disturbance; so differences in abundance of these species may be useful for bio-indication. Furthermore, present study suggests the need of adequate biodiversity conservation measures and adaptation of sustainable forest management approaches in disturbed areas of lowland tropical rainforest in the foothills of eastern Himalaya, India.		[Gogoi, Anudip; Sahoo, Uttam Kumar] Mizoram Univ, Dept Forestry, Aizawl 796004, Mizoram, India; [Sahoo, Uttam Kumar] Mizoram Univ, Dept Forestry, Aizawl 796004, Mizoram, India								16							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000450458300010		
J	Sileesh, M. S.; Alphi, K.; Harish, K. C.; Viji, V.								Species assemblages and community structure of deep-sea demersal ichthyofauna of the South-eastern Arabian Sea (SEAS)								JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM				98	7			1775	1781		10.1017/S0025315417001151			NOV 2018	2018	Studies of species assemblages and community structure are of vital importance in the deep-sea realm. Data for the present study were collected during the research expedition of FORV 'Sagar Sampada' in the latitude 8.02 degrees N and 11.58 degrees N, longitude 74.16 degrees E and 78.35 degrees E. High Speed Demersal Trawl - Crustacean Version (HSDT-CV) was used for the operations at a depth of 200 and 1000 m. The total catch came to 2148.35 kg from 10 stations. An analysis of the catch composition was made. Total catch was dominated by Priacanthus hamrur (27.66%) followed by Neoepinnula orientalis (15.57%), Psenopsis cyanea (10.05%), Glyptophidium oceanium (3.55%), Lamprogrammus niger (3.17%), Narcine timlei (3.08%), Lamprogrammus sp. (2.6%), Pterigotrygla hemisticta (2.17%). About 76 species recorded from 22 orders were identified. The diversity indices, Cluster analysis, k-dominance plot were analysed using PRIMER v6 software. The diversity indices including Margalef richness index (d), Shanon index (log e(2)), Pielou's evenness index (J') and Simpson diversity index (1 - lambda) were calculated. Diversity indices were compared with the previous studies in the same area, and this can be a reference point for future studies.		[Sileesh, M. S.; Alphi, K.; Harish, K. C.; Viji, V.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India; [Alphi, K.] Kerala Univ Fisheries & Ocean Studies, Cochin, Kerala, India								3							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000447314500025		
J	Ramli, Norulhuda Mohamed; Yusoff, Fatimah M.; Giatsis, Christos; Tan, Geok Yuan A.; Verreth, Johan A. J.; Verdegem, Marc C. J.								Effects of <i>Stigeoclonium nanum</i>, a freshwater periphytic microalga on water quality in a small-scale recirculating aquaculture system								AQUACULTURE RESEARCH				49	11			3529	3540		10.1111/are.13818			NOV 2018	2018	Recirculating aquaculture systems (RAS) are becoming important for aquaculture due to land and water supply limitations and due to their low environmental impact. Bacteria are important in RAS as their role in nutrient recycling has been the main mechanism for waste removal in these systems. Besides bacteria, the presence of microalgae can benefit the water quality through the absorption of inorganic nitrogen (ammonium and nitrate) and phosphorus from the water. However, reports on the inclusion of microalgae in RAS are very scarce. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of microalgae on water quality (total ammonia nitrogen, nitrite, nitrate and phosphate) and bacterial composition in a freshwater small-scale RAS. A periphytic microalga, Stigeoclonium nanum, was used in this study. A rapid fingerprint analysis, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), was used to determine the bacterial community composition in the water. The results showed that ammonia concentrations were not significantly different (p > 0.05) between RAS with microalgae (RAS+A) and RAS without microalgae (RAS-A). However, nitrite, nitrate and phosphate were significantly lower in the RAS+A than the RAS-A (p < 0.05). Pielou's evenness and Shannon diversity index of bacterial community between the treatments were not different (p > 0.05); however, the bacterial composition between the treatments was significantly different (p < 0.05).		[Ramli, Norulhuda Mohamed; Giatsis, Christos; Verreth, Johan A. J.; Verdegem, Marc C. J.] Wageningen Univ, Aquaculture & Fisheries Grp, Wageningen, Netherlands; [Ramli, Norulhuda Mohamed] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Engn, Dept Biol & Agr Engn, Serdang, Malaysia; [Yusoff, Fatimah M.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Inst Biosci, Lab Marine Biotechnol, Serdang, Malaysia; [Yusoff, Fatimah M.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Dept Aquaculture, Fac Agr, Serdang, Malaysia; [Tan, Geok Yuan A.] Univ Malaya, Inst Biol Sci, Fac Sci, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; [Ramli, Norulhuda Mohamed] Wageningen Univ, Aquaculture & Fisheries Grp, Wageningen, Netherlands								6							Fisheries	WOS:000446520500006		
J	Turkis, Sevda; Elmas, Emire								Effect of environmental factors on species diversity of the Yenice Hot Spot Forests in Turkey								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				29	6			1719	1730		10.1007/s11676-018-0595-8			NOV 2018	2018	We quantified the diversity of vascular plant species and described soil properties and topographical and climatic conditions of the Citdere and Kavakli Nature Reserves in the Yenice Forest of Turkey. We used the Shannon-Weiner and Simpson's indices of diversity, Margalef's index of species richness and Pielou's evenness index to quantify the structure of vascular plant assemblages. We measured soil parameters (NO3-, NH4+, available P, Mg++, K+, Na+, Ca++, organic matter, pH, soil moisture), elevation, slope gradient and aspect and their correlations with plant community parameters. In total, we recorded and identified 207 species and subspecies in the study area. Species cover, richness and diversity indices varied significantly by vegetation type (P < 0.01). Available NO3- and Ca++ in the soil were important factors for the area and species representation in the species-environment correlations estimated for the Kavakli area. Available NO3-, pH, organic matter, Ca++ and K+ in the soil were important factors for the area and species representation in the species-environment correlations analysed for the Citdere area.		[Turkis, Sevda] Ordu Univ, Fac Educ, Ordu, Turkey; [Elmas, Emire] Sinop Univ, Fac Sci & Art, Sinop, Turkey; [Turkis, Sevda] Ordu Univ, Fac Educ, Ordu, Turkey								2							Forestry	WOS:000445386400025		
J	Chen, Yu-Chi; Chu, Ta-Jen; Wei, Ju-Der; Shih, Chun-Han								Effects of mangrove removal on benthic organisms in the Siangshan Wetland in Hsinchu, Taiwan								PEERJ				6						e5670	10.7717/peerj.5670			OCT 4 2018	2018	Mangrove degradation is a well-documented trend, but the spread of mangroves within the Siangshan Wetland in Hsinchu, Taiwan, runs contrary to that trend. The spread of mangroves changes the structure and functions of habitats for benthic organisms, causes infilling of estuaries and flooding and creates breeding grounds for small black mosquitoes. A large-scale mangrove-removal project was undertaken by the Hsinchu City Government from October 2015 to March 2016. They also investigated the consequences of mangrove removal on benthic organisms and adjacent habitats from October 2015 to September 2016, and the density, species count, Shannon-Wiener index (H'), and Pielou's evenness index (J') of the mangrove and non-mangrove regions were compared. In this study, we used satellite telemetry images to monitor fluctuations in mangrove density from 2006 to 2016. The non-mangrove region exhibited more variations than the mangrove region. After mangrove removal, species returned to their original habitats and noteworthy biological values significantly increased in the mangrove regions. This study presents evidence to argue that mangrove removal benefits benthic organisms. The results indicate that mangrove removal can be an appropriate habitat rehabilitation strategy for benthic organisms. The ecological findings of this study can inform coastal managers or other officials who seek to steward mangrove biomass.		[Chen, Yu-Chi] Chung Hua Univ, Dept Landscape Architecture, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Chu, Ta-Jen] Chung Hua Univ, Dept Tourism & Leisure, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Wei, Ju-Der] Chung Hua Univ, Dept Civil Engn, Hsinchu, Taiwan; [Shih, Chun-Han] Tungnan Univ, Dept Leisure Management, New Taipei, Taiwan; [Chu, Ta-Jen] Minjiang Univ, Ocean Coll, Fuzhou, Fujian, Peoples R China; [Shih, Chun-Han] Tungnan Univ, Dept Leisure Management, New Taipei, Taiwan								5							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000447207100003		
J	Anirwal, Jitendra; Kumar, Adarsh; Pietrzykowski, Marcin; Maiti, Subodh Kumar								Reclamation of coal mine spoil and its effect on Technosol quality and carbon sequestration: a case study from India								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				25	28			27992	28003		10.1007/s11356-018-2789-1			OCT 2018	2018	A field study was carried out to assess the impact of revegetation on Technosol quality in the post-mining sites (Central Coalfield Limited, India). The study evaluated community structure, biodiversity, Technosol quality, and carbon (C) dynamics in the post-mining ecosystem (PME). The multivariate statistical tool was used to identify the key soil properties, and soil quality was evaluated byusing Technosol quality index (TQI). One unreclaimed site (0years) and four chronosequences revegetated coal mine sites (3, 7, 10, and 15years) were studied and compared with an undisturbed forest as a reference site. Plant biodiversity indices [Shannon index of diversity (2.42) and Pielou's evenness (0.97) and Patric richness (12)] were highest in 15-year-old revegetated sites. Soil physicochemical and biological properties were recovered with the revegetation age. Soil organic C (SOC) stock significantly increased from 0.75Mg Cha(-1) in 3years to 7.60Mg Cha(-1) after 15years of revegetation in top 15cm of soils. Ecosystem C pool increased at a rate of 5.38Mg Cha(-1)year(-1). Soil CO2 flux was significantly increased from 0.27mol CO(2)m(-2)s(-1) in unreclaimed sites to 3.19mol CO(2)m(-2)s(-1) in 15-year-old revegetated site. Principal component analysis (PCA) showed that dehydrogenase activity (DHA), available nitrogen (N), and silt content were the key soil parameters that were affected by reclamation. A 15-year-old Technosol had a greater TQI (0.78) compared to the control forest soils (0.64) that indicated the suitability of revegetation to recuperate soil quality in mining-degraded land and to increase C sequestration potential.		[Anirwal, Jitendra; Maiti, Subodh Kumar] Indian Sch Mines, Indian Inst Technol, Ctr Min Environm, Dept Environm Sci & Engn, Dhanbad 826004, Bihar, India; [Kumar, Adarsh] Ural Fed Univ, Inst Nat Sci & Math, Dept Expt Biol & Biotechnol, Mira Str 19, Ekaterinburg 620002, Russia; [Pietrzykowski, Marcin] Agr Univ Krakow, Fac Forestry, Inst Ecol & Silviculture, Dept Forest Ecol & Reclamat, Al 29 Listopada, PL-31425 Krakow, Poland; [Anirwal, Jitendra] Indian Sch Mines, Indian Inst Technol, Ctr Min Environm, Dept Environm Sci & Engn, Dhanbad 826004, Bihar, India								36							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000445215500026		
J	Deng, Fuying; He, Yunling; Zang, Runguo								Recovery of Functional Diversity Following Shifting Cultivation in Tropical Monsoon Forests								FORESTS				9	9					506	10.3390/f9090506			SEP 2018	2018	The relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning is an important issue in ecology. Plant functional traits and their diversity are key determinants of ecosystem function in changing environments. Understanding the successional dynamics of functional features in forest ecosystems is a first step to their sustainable management. In this study, we tested the changes in functional community composition with succession in tropical monsoon forests in Xishuangbanna, China. We sampled 33 plots at three successional stages-similar to 40-year-old secondary forests, similar to 60-year-old secondary forests, and old growth forests-following the abandonment of the shifting cultivation land. Community-level functional traits were calculated based on measurements of nine functional traits for 135 woody plant species. The results show that the community structures and species composition of the old-growth forests were significantly different to those of the secondary stands. The species diversity, including species richness (S), the Shannon-Weaver index (H), and Pielou's evenness (J), significantly increased during the recovery process after shifting cultivation. The seven studied leaf functional traits (deciduousness, specific leaf area, leaf dry matter content, leaf nitrogen content, leaf phosphorus content, leaf potassium content and leaf carbon content) changed from conservative to acquisitive syndromes during the recovery process, whereas wood density showed the opposite pattern, and seed mass showed no significant change, suggesting that leaf traits are more sensitive to environmental changes than wood or seed traits. The functional richness increased during the recovery process, whereas the functional evenness and divergence had the highest values in the 60-year-old secondary communities. Soil nutrients significantly influenced functional traits, but their effects on functional diversity were less obvious during the secondary succession after shifting cultivation. Our study indicates that the recovery of tropical monsoon forests is rather slow; secondary stands recover far less than the old growth stands in terms of community structure and species and functional diversity, even after about half a century of recovery, highlighting the importance of the conservation of old growth tropical monsoon forest ecosystems.		[Deng, Fuying; He, Yunling] Yunnan Univ, Coll Resources Environm & Earth Sci, Kunming 650091, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Zang, Runguo] Chinese Acad Forestry, State Forestry Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Zang, Runguo] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coinnovat Ctr Sustainable Forestry Southern China, Nanjing 210037, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zang, Runguo] Chinese Acad Forestry, State Forestry Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, Beijing 100091, Peoples R China; [Zang, Runguo] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coinnovat Ctr Sustainable Forestry Southern China, Nanjing 210037, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								6							Forestry	WOS:000448398100002		
J	Ayub, Huma; Ahmad, Iftikhar; Shah, Syed Lal; Bhatti, Muhammad Zafarullah; Shafi, Nuzhat; Qayyum, Mazhar								Studies on Seasonal and Spatial Distribution of Zooplankton Communities and Their Diversity Indices at Chashma Lake, Pakistan								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				50	4			1293	1298		10.17582/journal.pjz/2018.50.4.1293.1298			AUG 2018	2018	The study was conducted to investigate the seasonal and spatial distribution of zooplankton species at Chashma Lake during June 2014 to May 2015. The samples were collected from three partially separated stations of the Chashma Lake on a monthly basis. A total 42 species of zooplankton were identified from the Chashma Lake belonging to three taxa viz.; copepoda, rotifera and cladocera. The diversity of the zooplankton species in the lake was determined by richness and evenness indices, which were found as follows; Margalef Index 1.30 to 3.87, Shannon's Index 2.54 to 3.68, Simpson Index 0.92 to 0.97, Simpson's Reciprocal Index 12.25 to 37.69 and Pielou's Evenness Index 0.94 to 1.0. The zooplankton community was found abundant in summer as compared to winter. The copepods were found dominant followed by rotifers and cladocerans for entire study period. The spatial distribution of zooplankton was not found prominent as compared to their seasonal distribution. However, rotifers showed spatial difference among sampling stations (ANOVA, p-value < 0.05). The present study provides a first detailed spatial and seasonal distribution of zooplankton in Chashma Lake, which may be a road map for further studies on zooplankton diversity in other freshwater lakes in the region.		[Ayub, Huma; Qayyum, Mazhar] Pir Mehar Ali Shah Arid Agr Univ, Dept Zool, Rawalpindi, Pakistan; [Ahmad, Iftikhar] Fish Hatchery, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Shah, Syed Lal] Pakistan Sci Fdn, Islamabad, Pakistan; [Bhatti, Muhammad Zafarullah] Fish Biodivers Hatchery, Chashma, Pakistan; [Shafi, Nuzhat] Univ Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Dept Zool, Muzaffarabad, Pakistan; [Shah, Syed Lal] Pakistan Sci Fdn, Islamabad, Pakistan								1							Zoology	WOS:000447591600013		
J	Ramalho, Sofia P.; Almeida, Mariana; Esquete, Patricia; Genio, Luciana; Ravara, Ascensao; Rodrigues, Clara F.; Lampadariou, Nikolaos; Vanreusel, Ann; Cunha, Marina R.								Bottom-trawling fisheries influence on standing stocks, composition, diversity and trophic redundancy of macrofaunal assemblages from the West Iberian Margin								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS				138				131	145		10.1016/j.dsr.2018.06.004			AUG 2018	2018	Bottom-trawling fisheries operating in Portugal (West Iberian Margin) impose one of the largest footprints per unit of biomass landed in European waters at depths greater than 200 m, affecting the seafloor integrity and the associated benthic fauna. To investigate how trawling pressure is affecting the macrofaunal assemblages, we compared the standing stock (abundance and biomass), community structure and taxonomical and trophic diversity in areas subjected to varying trawling pressure along the SW Portuguese upper slope, between 200 and 600 m. In addition to trawling pressure, several environmental variables, namely depth, grain size and organic matter, were correlated with the biological component, which suggest that the longstanding trawling pressure presents cumulative effects to the habitat heterogeneity known to characterise the West Iberian Margin fauna. Furthermore, our results showed a depletion of macro-infaunal abundances in both the fishing ground and the adjacent area (up to 3 times lower), when compared to the area not trawled. The observed decrease in abundance with increasing trawling pressure was also associated with a loss of species and trophic richness, but univariate diversity indices related with community structure (i.e. Shannon-Wiener index, Pielou's evenness) failed to detect consistent differences across areas. Also observed was a decrease in the number of taxa - trophic guilds combinations of the core assemblage (i.e. characteristic, dominant or frequent taxa) with increasing trawling pressure. We suggest that, in disturbed sediments, the lower functional redundancy resulting from the loss of species within most feeding guilds increases the vulnerability of trophic interactions and therefore of the whole assemblage to further increases in natural and anthropogenic disturbance or their synergistic effects.		[Ramalho, Sofia P.; Almeida, Mariana; Esquete, Patricia; Genio, Luciana; Ravara, Ascensao; Rodrigues, Clara F.; Cunha, Marina R.] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Ramalho, Sofia P.; Almeida, Mariana; Esquete, Patricia; Genio, Luciana; Ravara, Ascensao; Rodrigues, Clara F.; Cunha, Marina R.] Univ Aveiro, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Ramalho, Sofia P.; Vanreusel, Ann] Univ Ghent, Marine Biol Res Grp, Dept Biol, Krijgslaan 281-S8, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium; [Lampadariou, Nikolaos] Hellen Ctr Marine Res, Inst Oceanog, POB 2214, Iraklion 71003, Crete, Greece; [Ramalho, Sofia P.] Univ Aveiro, Dept Biol, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal; [Ramalho, Sofia P.] Univ Aveiro, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, Campus Univ Santiago, P-3810193 Aveiro, Portugal								6							Oceanography	WOS:000445985100012		
J	Murugan, Rajaram; Ananthan, Gnanakkan								Ascidian diversity (Chordata: Tunicata) from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India								OCEANOLOGICAL AND HYDROBIOLOGICAL STUDIES				47	2			107	117		10.1515/ohs-2018-0012			JUN 2018	2018	Ascidians are filter-feeding sac-like marine urochordates of great evolutionary, ecological and economic importance. Andaman and Nicobar Islands are one of the most important hot spots of biodiversity in India, while the ascidian diversity of this region is very scanty. Ascidians belonging to 29 species were identified at the Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the field research carried out from March 2014 to April 2015. Eight species (Didemnum granulatum, Didemnum molle, Didemnum psammatodes, Diplosoma listerianum, Lissoclinum fragile, Lissoclinum levitum, Lissoclinum patella, Trididemnum Cyclops) from the Didemnidae family were found and identified. Various diversity indices, such as the Shannon - Wiener index (H') Margalef's index (D), Pielou's index (H'), K-dominance curves, Cluster Analysis and Multidimensional Scaling, were used to analyze the diversity, richness and evenness of species, and to compare the diversity between samples and their resemblance in terms of species composition. The maximum species richness was observed in Campbell Bay (2.424) and the minimum in Haddo Wharf (0.910). This finding shows the rich species diversity of ascidian fauna at Andaman and Nicobar Islands.		[Murugan, Rajaram; Ananthan, Gnanakkan] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Ananthan, Gnanakkan] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								1							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000435586900002		
J	Ricotta, Carlo								A family of (dis)similarity measures based on evenness and its relationship with beta diversity								ECOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY				34				69	73		10.1016/j.ecocom.2018.03.002			MAY 2018	2018	In this paper, I propose a new evenness-based method for calculating plot-to-plot (dis)similarity coefficients. The method is very flexible, as (dis)similarity can be calculated for any kind of species abundance data (also including functional or phylogenetic differences between species), and can be easily generalized to multiple sites. To show how the proposed method works in practice, the behavior of two similarity coefficients based on Pielou's and Williams' evenness is examined with simulated data representing an ideal ecological gradient. Being derived from classical evenness indices, which have been used in ecology for decades, this new family of measures has a great potential for future research in community ecology and multivariate analysis.		[Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Environm Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								3							Ecology	WOS:000437392800007		
J	Yang, Bing; Pang, Xueyong; Bao, Weikai; Zhou, Kexin								Thinning-induced canopy opening exerted a specific effect on soil nematode community								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				8	8			3851	3861		10.1002/ece3.3901			APR 2018	2018	Changes in microclimate, soil physicochemical properties, understory vegetation cover, diversity, and composition as well as soil microbial community resulting from silvicultural practices are expected to alter soil food webs. Here, we investigated whether and how contrasting-sized canopy openings affect soil nematode community within a 30year-aged spruce plantation. The results indicated that the responses of soil nematodes to canopy opening size were dependant on their feeding habit. The abundance of total nematodes and that of free-living nematodes was negatively correlated with soil bulk density, whereas the abundance of omnivore-predators was negatively correlated with soil bulk density and shrubs cover, respectively. The ratio of the sum abundance of predators and omnivores to the plant parasites' abundance, Simpson's dominance index, Pielou's evenness index, and sigma maturity index, maturity index (MI), MI2-5, basal index, enrichment index, and structure index was sensitive to alteration in canopy opening size. Multivariate analysis indicated that thinning-induced gap size resulted in contrasting nematode assemblages. In conclusion, soil nematodes should be integrated as an indicator to monitor soil multifunctionality change due to thinning.		[Yang, Bing; Pang, Xueyong; Bao, Weikai] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Mt Ecol Restorat & Bioresource Utilizat, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Yang, Bing; Pang, Xueyong; Bao, Weikai] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, Ecol Restorat & Biodivers Conservat Key Lab Sichu, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Kexin] Minist Environm Protect, Nanjing Inst Environm Sci, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Yang, Bing; Bao, Weikai] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Mt Ecol Restorat & Bioresource Utilizat, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China; [Yang, Bing; Bao, Weikai] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, Ecol Restorat & Biodivers Conservat Key Lab Sichu, Chengdu, Sichuan, Peoples R China								10							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000430807200005		
J	Kiruba-Sankar, R.; Krishnan, P.; Roy, S. Dam; Angel, J. Raymond Jani; Goutham-Bharathi, M. P.; Kumar, K. Lohith; Ragavan, P.; Kaliyamoorthy, M.; Muruganandam, R.; Rajakumari, S.; Purvaja, R.; Ramesh, R.								Structural complexity and tree species composition of mangrove forests of the Andaman Islands, India								JOURNAL OF COASTAL CONSERVATION				22	2			217	234		10.1007/s11852-017-0588-3			APR 2018	2018	This study reports the mapping, structural characteristics and distribution of mangrove species of the Andaman Islands. 79 mangrove patches were identified using Thiessen polygons of which, 53 accessible patches were surveyed during 2014-2015. Multiple linear transects were laid at each of the mangrove patches and data pertaining to diameter at breast height, basal area and height were recorded for all mangrove trees within a 10 x 10 m quadrat laid along the transects at 50 m intervals. Altogether, 178 quadrats were laid and 25 mangrove species representing 11 families and 14 genera were recorded. Of the 3073 mangrove plants enumerated in the present study, 96.06% were composed of trees (> 4 m height), 1.99% of saplings (> 1 m to 4 m height) and 1.95% of seedlings (1 m height). The number of species per quadrat ranged from 1 to 9 and majority of the quadrats had 2-3 species. Density and basal area of mangrove trees ranged from 1252 ha(-1) to 2200 ha(-1) and 30.8 m(2)/ha to 59.6 m(2)/ha, respectively. High diversity indices (Shannon-Wiener index ranged from 1.65 to 2.24; Simpson index from 0.74 to 0.85 and Pielou's evenness index from 0.66 to 0.84) indicated greater diversity and even dispersion of mangroves in the Islands. The study also revealed that the mangrove forests of Andaman Islands were characterized by a mixed species composition. Most of the sites were represented by different combinations of dominant and co-dominant species, all from the family Rhizophoraceae. The present study highlights the need for conserving the mixed species mangrove forests of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and development of location-specific management plans for biodiversity conservation.		[Kiruba-Sankar, R.; Roy, S. Dam; Angel, J. Raymond Jani; Goutham-Bharathi, M. P.; Kumar, K. Lohith; Ragavan, P.; Kaliyamoorthy, M.] ICAR Cent Isl Agr Res Inst, Div Fisheries Sci, Port Blair 744101, Andaman & Nicob, India; [Krishnan, P.; Muruganandam, R.; Rajakumari, S.; Purvaja, R.; Ramesh, R.] Minist Environm Forests & Climate Change, Natl Ctr Sustainable Coastal Management, Anna Univ Campus, Chennai 600025, Tamil Nadu, India; [Kiruba-Sankar, R.] ICAR Cent Isl Agr Res Inst, Div Fisheries Sci, Port Blair 744101, Andaman & Nicob, India								17							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000429116400002		
J	Zhang, Dong-mei; Zhao, Wen-zhi; Zhang, Ge-fei								Soil moisture and salt ionic composition effects on species distribution and diversity in semiarid inland saline habitats, northwestern China								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				33	2			505	515		10.1007/s11284-018-1570-8			MAR 2018	2018	Salinization is one of the main types causing land desertification in arid and semi-arid regions. Little is known about the impacts of salinization on the distribution and diversity of plant species, especially in semiarid inland saline habitats. We established a total of 40 sampling plots to determine plant community (floristic composition, species abundance, cover, frequency, and aboveground biomass) and soil characteristics (moisture, pH, electrical conductivity (EC), and the contents of Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Cl-, SO4 (2-) and HCO3 (-)). The TWINSPAN method was used to distinguish plant communities, by which three plant communities (I, II, III) were identified, namely Artemisia scoparia + Agropyron cristatum + Sophora alopecuroides (I), Kalidium gracile + Atriplex centralasiatica (II), and Salicornia europaea + Suaeda salsa (III). From I to III, the indices reflecting species diversity all decreased except for Pielou's index of evenness, while the aboveground biomass and cover increased; the characteristic indices of soil moisture, EC, the contents of Na+, K+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Cl-, SO4 (2-) and total dissolved salts (TDS) significantly increased, while the Ca2+/Na+, K+/Na+ ratios and HCO3 (-) content significantly decreased. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) showed that the most important environmental factors influencing species distribution were: soil moisture, SO4 (2-), K+/Na+ and pH. Stepwise multiple-regression analysis indicated that species richness was correlated mainly with TDS and moisture. These results also suggested that vegetation can be used as a proxy indicating soil salt conditions, and their relationships can further provide important information for the improvement of salt-affected soil's management and salt-tolerant species utilization in environmental restoration.		[Zhang, Dong-mei; Zhao, Wen-zhi; Zhang, Ge-fei] Chinese Acad Sci, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Key Lab Inland River Ecohydrol, Linze Inland River Basin Res Stn, 320 Donggang West Rd, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Dong-mei] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, 19A Yuquan Rd, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Wen-zhi] Chinese Acad Sci, Northwest Inst Ecoenvironm & Resources, Key Lab Inland River Ecohydrol, Linze Inland River Basin Res Stn, 320 Donggang West Rd, Lanzhou 730000, Peoples R China								11							Ecology	WOS:000427501800024		
J	Miklos, Michal; Koristekova, Katarina; Janco, Martin; Valkova, Miriam								Vegetation of the selected Slovakian ski pistes								PROCEEDINGS OF 25TH INTERNATIONAL PHD STUDENTS CONFERENCE (MENDELNET 2018)								201	204					2018	2018	In this study, the floristic composition of ski piste grasslands was compared between the plots treated and untreated by the artificial snow. Research was accomplished in the four ski centers of Central Slovakia (Inner Western Carpathians; temperate zone) located under 1000 m a.s.l. To identify floristic diversity, the Shannon-Wiener's diversity index and Pielou's evenness index was calculated from the vegetation releves. Results showed occurrence of the varied vegetation mosaic (comprising four to five vegetation units - alliances), both on the treated and untreated plots. Floristic composition of studied plots contained species typical for: i.) mesic hay meadows, ii.) mesic pastures and disturbed perennial grasslands, iii.) mesic montane meadows, iv.) grasslands of deforested sites of montane belts, and v.) oligotrophic grasslands. Species diversity between treated and untreated plots was significantly different in one of four ski centers, while species evenness was significantly different in two of four assessed ski centers. Mixture of species is result of the past and present management activities. Studied ski pistes were based on the mesic hay meadows, pastures and perennial grasslands that were originally natural mesic forests. Operation of the ski pistes on the existing grasslands and meadows can finally save these plant communities against the succession and degradation as in the studied sites. Fundamental differences in the species composition between the plots treated and untreated by the artificial snow was not observed.		[Miklos, Michal; Koristekova, Katarina; Janco, Martin; Valkova, Miriam] Tech Univ Zvolen, Dept Nat Environm, TG Masaryk St 24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia; [Miklos, Michal] Tech Univ Zvolen, Dept Nat Environm, TG Masaryk St 24, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia				25th International PhD Students Conference for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Students (MendelNet)	NOV 07-08, 2018		Mendel Univ Brno, Fac AgriSciences, Brno, CZECH REPUBLIC	2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000462205300038		
J	Wiharto, Muhammad; Lahming; Diyahwati; Wijaya, Muhammad; Lodang, Hamka; Hiola, Fatma			IOP					Vegetation structure of sapling plant at Bantimurung Bulusaraung National Park Balloci Resort South Sulawesi								Journal of Physics Conference Series				1028						012024	10.1088/1742-6596/1028/1/012024			2018	2018	Tropical rainforests are dwindling so that the protected areas of the tropics are very important. Sapling plants as part of the undergrowth plants are an inseparable part of the forest ecosystem and play an important role in the sustainability of the forests, including forests in the tropics. We examine the structure and composition of sapling plants in Bantimurung Bulusaraung National Park, Balloci resort, in two areas, which are Bukit Batu Putih and Gunung Bulusaraung. This national park is one of the protected areas in Province of South Sulawesi, Indonesia. Species with the highest importance value index in Bukit Batu Putih are Tabernaemontana sphaerocarpa, Homalium guianense, Micromelum minutum, Lepiniopsis ternatensis and Melicope lunu-ankenda with a total of 191.84%, while the lowest are Planchonella firma, Coffea sp., Matthaea sancta, Ficus pumila and Syzygium ingens with a total of 1.58%. Species in Gunung Bulusaraung with the highest important value index are Daemonorops longipes, Actephilla excelsa, Memecylon paniculatum, Galbulimina belgraveana and Ficus gul with a total of 126.31%, while the lowest are Arenga pinnata, Pterospermum celebicum, Ficus ampelas, Antidesma bunius and Cyathea contaminans with a total of 2.68%. The value of Shannon-wiener diversity, Simpson's diversity index, species richness, Pielou's evenness index, and Rarefaction in Bukit Batu Putih is lower than that of Gunung Bulusaraung and only Simpson's dominance index is higher indicating of lower species diversity in Bukit Putih area. The value of similarity index between Bukit Batu Putih and Gunung Bulusaraung is 23.71% indicating that these two areas have a high difference in the structure and composition of sapling plant vegetation.		[Wiharto, Muhammad; Lodang, Hamka; Hiola, Fatma] Univ Negeri Makassar, Dept Biol, Makassar 90222, Indonesia; [Lahming] Univ Negeri Makassar, Dept Agr Technol Educ, Makassar 90222, Indonesia; [Diyahwati] Univ Negeri Makassar, Dept Environm Sci Educ, Makassar 90222, Indonesia; [Wijaya, Muhammad] Univ Negeri Makassar, Dept Chem, Makassar 90222, Indonesia; [Wiharto, Muhammad] Univ Negeri Makassar, Dept Biol, Makassar 90222, Indonesia				2nd International Conference on Statistics, Mathematics, Teaching, and Research (ICSMTR)	OCT 09-10, 2017	UNM, Math & Nat Sci Fac	Makassar, INDONESIA	0							Education, Scientific Disciplines; Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000454737900024		
J	Jozwiak, Piotr; Pabis, Krzysztof; Jazdzewska, Anna; Sicinski, Jacek								Taxonomic surrogacy in the diversity assessment of the soft-bottom macrofauna along a depth gradient of an Antarctic fjord								POLISH POLAR RESEARCH				39	4			505	524		10.24425/118758			2018	2018	The study was aimed at analyzing patterns of abundance and diversity of macrozoobenthic communities along a depth gradient in the Admiralty Bay, a semi-enclosed basin located in a rapidly changing region of the western Antarctic Peninsula The study concerns primarily the Polychaeta and Amphipoda, the taxonomic richness and diversity of both groups being analyzed at different taxonomic levels (species, genus and family). Such an analysis, which uses a basic surrogacy measure (low taxonomic resolution) can be very useful in future monitoring programs of the Admiralty Bay. The analysis was based on 35 samples collected in the summer seasons of 1984/85 and 1985/86, with a Tvarminne sampler (within the 7-30 m depth range) and an 0.1 m(2) van Veen grab (deeper areas) along a transect with the depth changing from 7 to 502 m. The total macrozoobenthos abundance was found to decrease with depth, from 1581 +/- 730 ind./0.1 m(2) within the 7-30 m to as few as 384 +/- 145 ind./0.1 m(2) at 400-500 m. The number of phyla per sample was observed to increase along the depth gradient of 7-30 to 200-300 m but was substantially reduced in the deepest sublittoral (400-500 m). The results showed large differences between amphipods and polychaetes in their respective depth-related biodiversity changes. On the other hand, the diversity metrics used (Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Wiener index, number of species per sample, number of genera per sample, number of families per sample) at different taxonomic levels within each group produced similar patterns, demonstrating the usefulness of surrogacy in studies of Antarctic fjords.		[Jozwiak, Piotr; Pabis, Krzysztof; Jazdzewska, Anna; Sicinski, Jacek] Univ Lodz, Lab Polar Biol & Oceanobiol, Banacha 12-16, PL-90237 Lodz, Poland; [Jozwiak, Piotr] Univ Lodz, Lab Polar Biol & Oceanobiol, Banacha 12-16, PL-90237 Lodz, Poland								0							Ecology; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000453247800003		
J	Hsu, Che-Yu; Ou, Sheng-Jung; Hsieh, Wei-Fan			IOP					Predicting Fish Ecological As Indicator of River Pollution Using Decision Tree Technique								IOP Conference Series-Earth and Environmental Science				164						012022	10.1088/1755-1315/164/1/012022			2018	2018	The Goal of the research is to introducing the principle of Decision Tree that is being used to forecast river pollution, it provides a new method to evaluate the river pollution based on its water quality. We collected monthly monitoring data of water quality from Dezikou River basin of Yilan County, and the data of fish ecology obtained from ecological survey and report, in which to build a water quality and ecology resources database through an actual field investigation. By using data mining software, IBM SPSS Modeler 14.1's decision tree, conducting the River Pollution Index. Shannon-Weaver diversity, Pielou's Evenness Index, Margalefs Species Richness Index, Fish Tolerant Index and Simpson's Index of Diversity' s classification and prediction, to build a model for river pollution prediction, and to compare this with the Multiple Logistic Regression Analysis. The results showed that the model for river pollution prediction built under the Decision Tree can obtain a better forecast result. The following are the accurate rates of Decision Tree: 88% for CART, 90% for CHAID, 91.67% for C5.0, and 86.11% for Multiple Logistic Regression Analysis. Therefore, the Decision Tree's algorithm shows a better result in forecasting than the Multiple Logistic Regression Analysis.		[Hsu, Che-Yu; Ou, Sheng-Jung; Hsieh, Wei-Fan] Chaoyang Univ Technol, Dept Landscape & Urban Design, 168 Jifeng E Rd, Taichung 41349, Taiwan; [Ou, Sheng-Jung] Chaoyang Univ Technol, Dept Landscape & Urban Design, 168 Jifeng E Rd, Taichung 41349, Taiwan				2nd International Conference on Energy and Environmental Science (ICEES)	JAN 16-18, 2018	Widyatama Univ; ASEPTEC SDN BHD Co	Univ Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, MALAYSIA	1							Energy & Fuels; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000446780100022		
J	Aufa, Abdullah; Hadi, Mochamad; Putro, Sapto Purnomo								Spatial and temporal patterns of macrozoobenthic community inhabiting sediments under tropical fish farming								Journal of Physics Conference Series				1025						012041	10.1088/1742-6596/1025/1/012041			2018	2018	Macrozoobenthic animals is one of biota that may be used to assess the impact of the activities. They inhabit sediment of water ecosystem and may respond vary at different spatiotemporal scales. The purpose of this study is to study spatial and temporal patterns of macrozoobenthic community under fish farming activities at coastal area of Tembelas Island, Kepulauan Riau Province, Indonesia. The macrozoobenthic assemblages were assessedat three sampling locations, i.e. policulture [IMTA], monoculture and reference sites. Each sampling location consisted of three stations with three replicates for each station. The data obtained were analyzed using PRIMER software V.6.1.5. to compare number of taxa (S), Shanon-Wiener diversity index (H'), and Pielou's evenness index (e) and K-dominance cumulative curves between sites and times. The results showed that diversity index at fish farming locations (IMTA and monoculture) exhibited lower than those at reference site, between 1.58 - 2.19 and between 1.99-2.84, respectively. However, diversity at all locations were considered moderate diverse ecosystem. Meanwhile, Pielou's evenness indexbetween locations and sampling time showed no majordifference, ranging between 0.96-0.98. Based on K-dominance curves, P3T2 station curve was positioned on the top among other curves, implying certain taxa has dominated the assemblages, i.e. Nassarius sp. (Gastropod).		[Aufa, Abdullah] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Master Program Biol, Jl Prof Soedarto, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Hadi, Mochamad; Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Jl Prof Soedarto, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, Cent Lab Res & Serv, 2nd Floor,Jl Prof Soedarto, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math, Dept Biol, Jl Prof Soedarto, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia; [Putro, Sapto Purnomo] Diponegoro Univ, Ctr Marine Ecol & Biomonitoring Sustainable Aquac, Cent Lab Res & Serv, 2nd Floor,Jl Prof Soedarto, Tembalang 50275, Semarang, Indonesia				7th International Seminar on New Paradigm and Innovation on Natural Science and Its Application (ISNPINSA)	OCT 17, 2017	Diponegoro Univ, Fac Sci & Math	Semarang, INDONESIA	0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000445886400040		
J	Zhao, Hui; Wang, Qi-Rui; Fan, Wei; Song, Guo-Hua								The Relationship between Secondary Forest and Environmental Factors in the Southern Taihang Mountains								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				7						16431	10.1038/s41598-017-16647-0			NOV 27 2017	2017	It is important to understand the effects of environmental factors on secondary forest assembly for effective afforestation and vegetation restoration. We studied 24 20 m x 20 m quadrats of natural secondary forest in the southern Taihang Mountains. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and two-way indicator hydrocarbon analysis were used to analyse the relationship between community vegetation and environmental factors. The CCA showed that 13 terrain and soil variables shared 68.17% of the total variance. The principal environmental variables, based on the most parsimonious CCA model, were (in order) elevation, soil total N, soil gravel content, slope, soil electrical conductivity, and pH. Samples were clustered into four forest types, with forest diversity affected by elevation, nutrients, and water gradients. Topographical variables affected forest assembly more than soil variables. Species diversity was evaluated using the Shannon-Wiener, Simpson's diversity, and Pielou's evenness indexes. The environmental factors that affected species distribution had different effects on species diversity. The vegetation-environment relationship in the southern region was different than the central region of the Taihang Mountains, and vegetation restoration was at an early stage. The terrain of the southern region, especially elevation and slope, should be considered for vegetation restoration and conservation.		[Zhao, Hui; Song, Guo-Hua] Beijing Forestry Univ, Coll Forestry, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Hui; Wang, Qi-Rui; Fan, Wei] Henan Acad Forestry, Zhengzhou 450008, Henan, Peoples R China; [Song, Guo-Hua] Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Canvard Coll, Beijing 101118, Peoples R China; [Song, Guo-Hua] Beijing Forestry Univ, Coll Forestry, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Song, Guo-Hua] Beijing Technol & Business Univ, Canvard Coll, Beijing 101118, Peoples R China								18							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000416308200039		
J	Asgari, Mitra; Steiner, Christopher F.								Interactive effects of productivity and predation on zooplankton diversity								OIKOS				126	11			1617	1624		10.1111/oik.04099			NOV 2017	2017	Recent studies suggest the necessity of understanding the interactive effects of predation and productivity on species coexistence and prey diversity. Models predict that coexistence of prey species with different competitive abilities can be achieved if inferior resource competitors are less susceptible to predation and if productivity and/or predation pressure are at intermediate levels. Hence, predator effects on prey diversity are predicted to be highly context dependent: enhancing diversity from low to intermediate levels of productivity or predation and reducing diversity of prey at high levels of productivity or predation. While several studies have examined the interactive effects of herbivory and productivity on primary producer diversity, experimental studies of such effects in predator-prey systems are rare. We tested these predictions using an aquatic field mesocosm experiment in which initial density of the zooplankton predator Notonecta undulata and productivity were manipulated to test their interactive effects on diversity of seven zooplankton, cladoceran species that were common in surrounding ponds. Two productivity levels were imposed via phosphorus enrichment at levels comparable to low and intermediate levels found within neighboring natural ponds. We used open systems to allow for natural dispersal and behaviorally-mediated numerical responses by the flight-capable predator. Effects of predators on zooplankton diversity depended on productivity level. At low and high productivity, prey species richness declined while at high productivity it showed a unimodal relationship with increasing the predator density. Effects of treatments were weaker when using Pielou's evenness index or the inverse Simpson index as measures of prey diversity. Our findings are generally consistent with model predictions in which predators can facilitate prey coexistence and diversity at intermediate levels of productivity and predation intensity. Our work also shows that the functional form of the relationship between prey diversity and predation intensity can be complex and highly dependent on environmental context.		[Asgari, Mitra; Steiner, Christopher F.] Wayne State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, 5047 Gullen Mall, Detroit, MI 48202 USA; [Asgari, Mitra] Wayne State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, 5047 Gullen Mall, Detroit, MI 48202 USA								4							Ecology	WOS:000414120900010		
J	Cozzoli, F.; Stanca, E.; Selmeczy, G. B.; France, J.; Varkitzi, I.; Basset, A.								Sensitivity of phytoplankton metrics to sample-size: A case study on a large transitional water dataset (WISER)								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				82				558	573		10.1016/j.ecolind.2017.07.022			NOV 2017	2017	Phytoplankton is a key element for the assessment of ecological and environmental status of aquatic ecosystems, also in the frame of the MSFD. The methods used to analyse phytoplankton communities are mainly based on time consuming cell counts, dictating a trade-off between the number of cells counted and the number of phytoplankton samples in a monitoring plan, whenever the financial budget, the available personnel or the response time are limited. We investigated the optimal sample size effort, intended as number of phytoplankton cells enumerated per sampling station, of many commonly used metrics. To this aim, precision and uncertainty of the metrics as a function of the sample size have been addressed using a case study carried out in the Lesina lagoon (Apulia, Italy), where 12000 cells per sample have been enumerated within five sampling stations. Overall, we show that some of the commonly used indices/metrics for the description of phytoplankton communities are strongly dependent upon the sampling effort (as number of enumerated individuals per sample), while other metrics are relatively independent. Metrics based on the number of taxa only (e.g. Taxonomic richness), on the ratio between number of taxa and number of individuals (e.g. Margalers diversity index) or on the species evenness (e.g. Pielou's evenness index) strongly depend on the sample size and their uncertainty (in term of sampling variance) is usually large. On the other hand, metrics of taxonomic diversity accounting for the proportional abundance of each taxa (e.g. Shannon-Wiener's diversity index), metrics accounting for the dominance of the most abundant taxa (e.g. Berger-Parker's dominance index) and metrics derived from the individual size distribution (e.g. Index of Size spectra Sensitivity, ISS Phyto) are able to achieve high precision and low uncertainty already at small sample sizes (virtually less than 200 enumerated cells) and thus they minimize the allocated effort vs. the gained information. Accordingly to our observations, we provide recommendations about the metric selection and the optimal effort per sample to be allocated in phytoplankton monitoring plans.		[Cozzoli, F.; Stanca, E.; Selmeczy, G. B.; Basset, A.] Univ Salento, Dept Biol & Environm Sci & Technol, I-73100 Lecce, Italy; [France, J.] Natl Inst Biol, Marine Biol Stn Piran, Fornace 41, Piran 6330, Slovenia; [Varkitzi, I.] Hellen Ctr Marine Res, Inst Oceanog, Anavyssos 19013, Attica, Greece; [Cozzoli, F.] Univ Salento, Dept Biol & Environm Sci & Technol, I-73100 Lecce, Italy								15							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000417551700055		
J	Peterson, Mark E.; Rebar, Cynthia E.; Eisenhart, Karen S.; Stetson, Denise I.								RESPONSES OF SMALL MAMMAL COMMUNITIES TO PINYON-JUNIPER HABITAT TREATMENTS								WESTERN NORTH AMERICAN NATURALIST				77	3			331	342		10.3398/064.077.0306			OCT 2017	2017	Small mammals should be considered in wildlife management decisions because they are an important component of ecosystems. We examined small mammal population abundances (N) on 4 habitat treatment types in Colo rado pinyon pine (Pinus edulis)-Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) woodlands on the Uncompahgre Plateau, Montrose, Colorado. We trapped small mammals in Sherman live traps on 4 habitat treatment types-including 2 types of management treatments (chaining, roller chop), sites with high drought-related mortality of pinyon pine, and sites of mature pinyon-juniper (PJ) woodland-on 3 mesas. We modeled detection probability of deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) and least chipmunks (Tamias minimus) as a function of 4 treatment types on 3 mesas during 2 trapping periods by using Huggins closed mark-recapture models. A variance components analysis was conducted to obtain abundance shrinkage estimates and to separate spatial process variance from the sampling variance to calculate the percent of variation in abundance estimates explained by treatment type, mesa, and trapping period. Abundance estimates were higher for deer mice and least chipmunks on chaining and roller chop treatment sites than on mature PJ woodland and pinyon pine natural mortality sites. The highest percent of variation in abundance estimates was explained by treatment type for deer mice (33.67%) and least chipmunks (61.45%) and secondarily by mesa for deer mice (21.64%). We calculated species diversity using Shannon's, Simpson's, Pielou's evenness, and species richness indices, and we used analysis of variance to test for significant differences (P < 0.05) in species composition. Species diversity and richness were higher on natural mortality sites than on chaining, roller chop, and mature woodland sites. Our results indicate that chaining and roller chop habitat treatments within PJ woodlands have a positive impact on deer mouse and least chipmunk abundances, whereas natural mortality and chaining treatments have a positive impact on small mammal composition.		[Peterson, Mark E.; Rebar, Cynthia E.; Stetson, Denise I.] Edinboro Univ, Dept Biol, 230 Scotland Dr, Edinboro, PA 16444 USA; [Eisenhart, Karen S.] Edinboro Univ, Dept Geosci, 230 Scotland Dr, Edinboro, PA USA; [Stetson, Denise I.] Natl Ecol Observ Network, Pacific Northwest Reg, 1211 Cardinal Court Suite 120, Vancouver, WA USA; [Peterson, Mark E.] South Dakota Dept Game Fish & Pk, 4130 Adventure Trail, Rapid City, SD 57702 USA; [Peterson, Mark E.] Edinboro Univ, Dept Biol, 230 Scotland Dr, Edinboro, PA 16444 USA; [Peterson, Mark E.] South Dakota Dept Game Fish & Pk, 4130 Adventure Trail, Rapid City, SD 57702 USA								2							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000415759100005		
J	Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Yang, Mei; Sun, Yue; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin								Variation in the macrofaunal community over large temporal and spatial scales in the southern Yellow Sea								JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS				173				9	20		10.1016/j.jmarsys.2016.11.006			SEP 2017	2017	To detect large, temporal- and spatial-scale variations in the macrofaunal community in the southern Yellow Sea, data collected along the western, middle and eastern regions of the southern Yellow Sea from 1958 to 2014 were organized and analyzed. Statistical methods such as cluster analysis, non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination (nMDS), permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA), redundancy analysis (RDA) and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were applied. The abundance of polychaetes increased in the western region but decreased in the eastern region from 1958 to 2014, whereas the abundance of echinoderms showed an opposite trend. For the entire macrofaunal community, Margalefs richness (d), the Shannon-Wiener index (H') and Pielou's evenness (J) were significantly lower in the eastern region when compared with the other two regions. No significant temporal differences were found for d and H', but there were significantly lower values off' in 2014. Considerable variation in the macrofaunal community structure over the past several decades and among the geographical regions at the species, genus and family levels were observed. The species, genera and families that contributed to the temporal variation in each region were also identified. The most conspicuous pattern was the increase in the species Ophiura sarsii vadicola in the eastern region. In the western region, five polychaetes (Ninoe palmata, Notomastus latericeus, Paralacydonia paradoxa, Paraprionospio pinnata and Sternaspis scutata) increased consistently from 1958 to 2014. The dominance curves showed that both the species diversity and the dominance patterns were relatively stable in the western and middle regions. Environmental parameters such as depth, temperature and salinity could only partially explain the observed biological variation in the southern Yellow Sea. Anthropogenic activities such as demersal fishing and other unmeasured environmental variables may be more responsible for the long-term changes in the macrofaunal community. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V.		[Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Yang, Mei; Sun, Yue; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Sun, Yue] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Sui, Jixing; Yang, Mei; Sun, Yue; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266000, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China								16							Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000404500300002		
J	Vianna, Renata M.; Donatelli, Reginaldo J.; Whitacker, Raphael; Martins, Rafael M.; Sementili-Cardoso, Guilherme								Dynamics of the bird communities in two fragments of Atlantic Forest in Sao Paulo, Brazil								BIOLOGIA				72	8			913	926		10.1515/biolog-2017-0101			AUG 2017	2017	Birds can be used as bioindicators to evaluate the quality of a habitat. The objective of this study was to record richness and abundance of bird communities in two semi-deciduous forest fragments in Brazil (Olavo Egydio Setubal - OES; and Igure - IGR). A subsequent analysis and comparison of the avifauna structure in each of the fragments were made including previous studies in the same areas. Point counts methodology was chosen for each fragment along 12 months. The results showed the occurrence of a total of 129 bird species for both areas. Although we registered 102 species for each site, Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index, respectively, were slightly higher in OES (H' = 3.93; J' = 0.85) than in IGR (H' = 3.87; J' = 0.83). Among birds with various feeding habits, the highest percentage was recorded for understory insectivores in both areas. However, higher percentage of canopy frugivores was found in OES and higher percentage of canopy and understory nectarivores and canopy carnivores was registered in IGR. Moreover, in IGR higher abundance of omnivores was registered than in OES. On the other hand, in OES more specialist species were found while in IGR the percentage of generalist species was higher. Variations in diversity and evenness compared with three previous studies in the same areas showed higher values in the current study. Interestingly, the proportions of understory insectivores were maintained for both areas, however, in IGR higher percentage of omnivores and in OES more specialists than canopy frugivores and understory insectivores, respectively, were reported. Thus, in OES the specificity of feeding habits was maintained, but in IGR the percentage of generalists increased. This might be associated with the response to the edge effect which occurs in IGR's fragment, in particular due to the relation of shape versus size, which would determine its low perimeter.		[Vianna, Renata M.; Whitacker, Raphael; Martins, Rafael M.; Sementili-Cardoso, Guilherme] Sao Paulo State Univ, Biosci Inst, Posgraduat Program, Botucatu, SP, Brazil; [Donatelli, Reginaldo J.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Sch Sci, Biol Sci Dept, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Vianna, Renata M.] Sao Paulo State Univ, Biosci Inst, Posgraduat Program, Botucatu, SP, Brazil								1							Biology	WOS:000410907000010		
J	Iliev, Ivan; Yahubyan, Galina; Marhova, Mariana; Apostolova, Elena; Gozmanova, Mariyana; Gecheva, Gana; Kostadinova, Sonya; Ivanova, Angelina; Baev, Vesselin								Metagenomic profiling of the microbial freshwater communities in two Bulgarian reservoirs								JOURNAL OF BASIC MICROBIOLOGY				57	8			669	679		10.1002/jobm.201700137			AUG 2017	2017	Microorganisms inhabiting freshwater environments are an integral part of the aquatic ecosystems. Very few data are available regarding the profiles of the microbial communities in the reservoirs in Bulgaria, despite their key role in the biogeochemical processes. In the present study, we provide the first comprehensive metagenomic analysis on the planktonic bacterial diversity of two large and economically important Bulgarian reservoirs (Batak and Tsankov Kamak) using next-generation sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA gene (16S rRNA). Analysis of the metagenomic amplicon datasets, including quality filtering, clustering of Operational Taxonomic Units and taxonomy assignment revealed that 78.45% of the microbial communities between the two reservoirs were overlapping. The diversity (H) and Pielou's evenness (J) indices declined along the longitudinal axis of both reservoirs. The estimated values for the Shannon diversity index are typically observed in oligotrophic lakes. The microbial communities of both reservoirs were dominated by Proteobacteria, followed by Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes all comprised over 95% of the relative abundance, regardless of the reservoir's large hydrogeological differences. The bacterioplankton was characterized by high phylogenetic heterogeneity in the taxonomic structure, being distributed among 211 genera. The genera Limnohabitans and Rhodoferax held the absolute predominance, implying their significance in the aquatic food webs. The obtained data can contribute to the better systematic understanding of the microbial diversity of freshwater environments.		[Iliev, Ivan; Marhova, Mariana; Kostadinova, Sonya] Paisij Hilendarski Univ Plovdiv, Dept Biotechnol & Microbiol, Fac Biol, Plovdiv, Bulgaria; [Yahubyan, Galina; Apostolova, Elena; Gozmanova, Mariyana; Baev, Vesselin] Paisij Hilendarski Univ Plovdiv, Dept Plant Physiol & Mol Biol, Fac Biol, Plovdiv, Bulgaria; [Gecheva, Gana] Paisij Hilendarski Univ Plovdiv, Dept Ecol & Environm Conservat, Fac Biol, Plovdiv, Bulgaria; [Ivanova, Angelina] Inst Fisheries & Aquaculture, Plovdiv, Bulgaria; [Iliev, Ivan] Univ Plovdiv Paisii Hilendarski, Dept Biochem & Microbiol, Fac Biol, 24 Tzar Asen St, Plovdiv 4000, Bulgaria								16							Microbiology	WOS:000409031400004		
J	Yang, Hong; Lu, Guozhong; Jiang, Huiming; Shi, Dong-ning; Liu, Zhiheng								Diversity and distribution of soil micro-fungi along an elevation gradient on the north slope of Changbai Mountain								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				28	4			831	839		10.1007/s11676-016-0344-9			JUL 2017	2017	Elevational changes in patterns of diversity are important to understanding of the influence of global changes, yet few studies have addressed the distribution of microorganisms, e.g. soil micro-fungi. We studied the diversity of the forest soil micro-fungi in four vegetation belts along an elevation gradient on the north slope of Changbai Mountain in Changbai National Nature Reserve. The four belts were characterized as coniferous-deciduous mixed forest, coniferous forest, Erman's birch forest, and alpine tundra. We estimated the quantity and distribution of the fungal species in each belt and calculated three indices, viz. Shannon-Wiener diversity (H'), Pielou's evenness (J'), and Margalef's abundance (E), to depict fungal species diversity. A total of 932 strains were recorded and identified, representing 53 genera, and 108 species. Among these, Penicillium, Aspergillus, Trichoderma, Mucor, Rhizopus and Fusarium were the dominant genera. With increasing elevation, the quantity of fungi and values of H', E, and J' gradually declined.		[Yang, Hong; Lu, Guozhong] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Environm & Resources, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Huiming] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China; [Shi, Dong-ning] Liaoning Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Dalian 116081, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhiheng] Shenyang Agr Univ, Coll Plant Protect, Shenyang 110866, Peoples R China; [Lu, Guozhong] Dalian Nationalities Univ, Coll Environm & Resources, Dalian 116600, Peoples R China								16							Forestry	WOS:000404234900019		
J	Li, Jie; Li, Yi; Qian, Bao; Niu, Lihua; Zhang, Wenlong; Cai, Wei; Wu, Hainan; Wang, Peifang; Wang, Chao								Development and validation of a bacteria-based index of biotic integrity for assessing the ecological status of urban rivers: A case study of Qinhuai River basin in Nanjing, China								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT				196				161	167		10.1016/j.jenvman.2017.03.003			JUL 1 2017	2017	With the increasing human disturbance to urban rivers, the extinction and biodiversity losses of some macroorganism species decreased the accuracy of bioassessment. In this study, a novel index of biotic integrity based on bacteria (Ba-IBI) was first developed for Qinhuai River in Nanjing city, China. Thirty-two biofilm samples were collected along the river bank and the bacterial communities were identified by high-throughput sequencing. By the range, responsive, and redundancy tests, four core metrics were selected from the dataset of 78 candidate metrics, including Pielou's evenness index, proportion of Paenibacillus, proportion of OTUs tolerant to organic pollution and proportion of Nitrosomonas. The results showed that the Ba-IBI was able to effectively discriminate different impaired site groups, and had a good correlation with the index of water quality (r = 0.79, p < 0.01) and the qualitative habitat evaluation index (r = 0.51, p < 0.01). Moreover, the Ba-IBI was negatively correlated with the number of population within a 1 km buffer (r = 0.71, p < 0.01). Application of the index showed that most of the sites were in the poor or bad class in the river. Our study revealed that the Ba-IBI is an effective and reliable approach for assessing the ecological status of Qinhuai River basin, which can complement the existing ecological assessment approaches for urban. rivers. Meanwhile, repeted surveys and field validations are still needed to further improve the applicability of the index in future studies. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Li, Jie; Li, Yi; Niu, Lihua; Zhang, Wenlong; Cai, Wei; Wu, Hainan; Wang, Peifang; Wang, Chao] Hohai Univ, Coll Environm, Key Lab Integrated Regulat & Resource Dev Shallow, Minist Educ, Nanjing 210098, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Qian, Bao] Changjiang Water Resources Commiss, Hydrol Bur, Wuhan 430010, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Li, Yi] Hohai Univ, Coll Environm, Key Lab Integrated Regulat & Resource Dev Shallow, Minist Educ, Nanjing 210098, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								40							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000401888300018		
J	Su, Yuqiao; Tang, Qiming; Mo, Fuyan; Xue, Yuegui								Karst tiankengs as refugia for indigenous tree flora amidst a degraded landscape in southwestern China								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				7						4249	10.1038/s41598-017-04592-x			JUN 26 2017	2017	We conducted floristic and community analyses to compare the floristic composition, forest structure, taxonomic richness, and species diversity between two tiankeng (large doline, or sinkhole) habitats and two outside-tiankeng habitats of forest fragments in a degraded karst area in southwestern China. We found remarkably higher taxonomic richness in the tiankeng habitats than in the outside-tiankeng habitats at the species, generic, and familial levels. The inside-tiankeng habitats had higher floristic diversity but lower dominance. The remarkably higher uniqueness at all taxonomic levels and the much larger tree size in the two tiankeng habitats than in the outside-tiankeng habitats demonstrated the old-growth and isolated nature of the tiankeng flora. Plot-scale species richness, ShannonWiener index, Pielou's evenness, and Berger-Parker dominance significantly differed across habitats. Heterogeneity in floristic composition at the species, generic, and familial levels was extremely significant across habitats. In pairwise comparisons, except for the Chuandong Tiankeng-Shenmu Tiankeng pair, all the pairs showed significant between-habitat heterogeneity in floristic composition. Our results suggest that as oases amidst the degraded karst landscape, tiankengs serve as modern refugia that preserve old-growth forest communities with their rich floristic diversity, and can provide a model for habitat conservation and forest restoration in that area.		[Su, Yuqiao; Tang, Qiming; Mo, Fuyan; Xue, Yuegui] Guangxi Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Guilin 541006, Guangxi, Peoples R China; [Xue, Yuegui] Guangxi Normal Univ, Coll Life Sci, Guilin 541006, Guangxi, Peoples R China								40							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000404037400016		
J	Jin, Wei; Cheng, Yanfen; Zhu, Weiyun								The community structure of <i>Methanomassiliicoccales</i> in the rumen of Chinese goats and its response to a high-grain diet								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL SCIENCE AND BIOTECHNOLOGY				8						47	10.1186/s40104-017-0178-0			JUN 1 2017	2017	Background: The newly proposed methanogenic order 'Methanomassiliicoccales' is the second largest archaeal population in the rumen, second only to the Methanobrevibacter population. However, information is limited regarding the community of this new order in the rumen. Methods: This study used real-time PCR and 454 pyrosequencing to explore the abundance and community composition of Methanomassiliicoccales in the rumen of Chinese goats fed a hay (0% grain, n = 5) or a high grain (65% grain, n = 5) diet. Results: Real-time PCR analysis showed that the relative abundance of Methanomassiliicoccales (% of total archaea) in the goat rumen was significantly lower in the high-grain-diet group (0.5% +/- 0.2%) than that in the hay-diet group (8.2% +/- 1.1%, P < 0.05). The pyrosequencing results showed that a total of 208 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were formed from ten samples at 99% sequence identity. All the sequences were identified as Methanomassiliicoccaceae at the family level, and most of the sequences (96.82% +/- 1.64%) were further classified as Group 8, 9, and 10 at the Methanomassiliicoccales genus level in each sample based on the RIM-DB database. No significant differences were observed in the number of OTUs or Chao1's, Shannon's or Pielou's evenness indexes between the hay- and high-grain-diet groups (P = 0.05). PCoA analysis showed that diet altered the community of Methanomassiliicoccales. At the genus level, the relative abundances of Group 10 (67.25 +/- 12.76 vs. 38.13 +/- 15.66, P = 0.012) and Group 4 (2.07 +/- 1. 30 vs. 0.27 +/- 0.30, P = 0.035) were significantly higher in the high-grain-diet group, while the relative abundance of Group 9 was significantly higher in the hay- diet group (18.82 +/- 6.20 vs. 47.14 +/- 17.72, P = 0.020). At the species level, the relative abundance of Group 10 sp. (67.25 +/- 12.76 vs. 38.13 +/- 15.66, P = 0.012) and Group 4 sp. MpT1 (2.07 +/- 1.30 vs. 0.27 +/- 0.30, P = 0.035) were significantly higher in the high-grain-diet group, while the relative abundance of Group 9 sp. ISO4-G1 was significantly higher in the hay- diet group (12.83 +/- 3.87 vs. 42.44 +/- 18.47, P = 0.022). Conclusions: Only a few highly abundant phylogenetic groups dominated within the Methanomassiliicoccales community in the rumens of Chinese goats, and these were easily depressed by high- grain- diet feeding. The relatively low abundance suggests a small contribution on the part of Methanomassiliicoccales to the rumen methanogenesis of Chinese goats.		[Zhu, Weiyun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Gastrointestinal Nutr & Anim, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, Lab Gastrointestinal Microbiol, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Weiyun] Nanjing Agr Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, Jiangsu Prov Key Lab Gastrointestinal Nutr & Anim, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								15							Agriculture, Dairy & Animal Science	WOS:000403286400001		
J	Zhang Pingping; Shao Ming'an; Zhang Xingchang								Spatial pattern of plant species diversity and the influencing factors in a Gobi Desert within the Heihe River Basin, Northwest China								JOURNAL OF ARID LAND				9	3			379	393		10.1007/s40333-017-0056-9			JUN 2017	2017	Understanding the spatial pattern of plant species diversity and the influencing factors has important implications for the conservation and management of ecosystem biodiversity. The transitional zone between biomes in desert ecosystems, however, has received little attention in that regard. In this study, we conducted a quantitative field survey (including 187 sampling plots) in a 40-km(2) study area to determine the spatial pattern of plant species diversity and analyze the influencing factors in a Gobi Desert within the Heihe River Basin, Northwest China. A total of 42 plant species belonging to 16 families and 39 genera were recorded. Shrub and semi-shrub species generally represented the major part of the plant communities (covering 90% of the land surface), while annual and perennial herbaceous species occupied a large proportion of the total recorded species (71%). Patrick richness index (R), Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H'), Simpson's dominance index (D), and Pielou's evenness index (J) were all moderately spatially variable, and the variability increased with increasing sampling area. The semivariograms for R and H' were best fitted with Gaussian models while the semivariograms for D and J were best fitted with exponential models. Nugget-to-still ratios indicated a moderate spatial autocorrelation for R, H', and D while a strong spatial autocorrelation was observed for J. The spatial patterns of R and H' were closely related to the geographic location within the study area, with lower values near the oasis and higher values near the mountains. However, there was an opposite trend for D. R, H', and D were significantly correlated with elevation, soil texture, bulk density, saturated hydraulic conductivity, and total porosity (P < 0.05). Generally speaking, locations at higher elevations tended to have higher species richness and diversity and the higher elevations were characterized by higher values in sand and gravel contents, bulk density, and saturated hydraulic conductivity and also by lower values in total porosity. Furthermore, spatial variability of plant species diversity was dependent on the sampling area.		[Zhang Pingping; Shao Ming'an; Zhang Xingchang] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Zhang Pingping; Shao Ming'an; Zhang Xingchang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Zhang Pingping; Shao Ming'an; Zhang Xingchang] Minist Water Resources, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Shao Ming'an] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Key Lab Ecosyst Network Observat & Modeling, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Shao Ming'an] Northwest A&F Univ, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Shao Ming'an] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Soil & Water Conservat, State Key Lab Soil Eros & Dryland Farming Loess P, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Shao Ming'an] Minist Water Resources, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Shao Ming'an] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Key Lab Ecosyst Network Observat & Modeling, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China								12							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000401445300006		
J	Jia Fengqin; Tiyip, Tashpolat; Wu Nan; Tian Changyan; Zhang Yuanming								Characteristics of soil seed banks at different geomorphic positions within the longitudinal sand dunes of the Gurbantunggut Desert, China								JOURNAL OF ARID LAND				9	3			355	367		10.1007/s40333-017-0055-x			JUN 2017	2017	Understanding the characteristics of soil seed banks in sand dunes is crucial to stabilize the dune systems and maintain the plant populations in deserts. In this study, we conducted a survey investigation in the field and a seed germination experiment in the laboratory to explore the characteristics of soil seed banks at various geomorphic positions of longitudinal sand dunes in the Gurbantunggut Desert, China. Totally, 17 plant species belonging to 17 genera and 9 families were identified in soil seed banks, and 35 plant species belonging to 34 genera and 17 families were identified in aboveground vegetation. Plant species richness in soil seed banks decreased with increasing soil depth. The highest species richness was presented in the upper slope of the windward slope and the lowest species richness was presented in the base of the windward slope. There was no significant difference in seed density of soil seed banks among the examined seven geomorphic positions. The highest seed density occurred in the lower slope of the leeward slope while the lowest occurred in the crest. Moreover, seed density decreased with increasing soil depth, being the highest in the upper soil layer (0-2 cm). For both soil seed banks and aboveground vegetation, there was no significant difference in Simpson's diversity index among the seven geomorphic positions; however, Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index showed significant differences among the seven geomorphic positions. Those results showed that although there was no significant difference in seed density of soil seed banks among the seven geomorphic positions, the geomorphic positions significantly affected the species richness, diversity and distribution of soil seed banks. Therefore, understanding the characteristics of soil seed banks at different geomorphic positions of sand dunes is essential to vegetation restoration or reestablishment. Furthermore, the Jaccard's similarity coefficients of plant species between soil seed banks and aboveground vegetation at the seven geomorphic positions were low, suggesting that vegetation restoration or reestablishment processes should be promoted through adding seeds to surface layers.		[Jia Fengqin; Wu Nan; Tian Changyan; Zhang Yuanming] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, Key Lab Biogeog & Bioresources Arid Land, Urumqi 830011, Peoples R China; [Jia Fengqin; Tiyip, Tashpolat] Xinjiang Univ, Resources & Environm Dept, Key Lab Oasis Ecology, Urumqi 830046, Peoples R China; [Jia Fengqin] Urumqi Vocat Univ, Tourism Coll, Urumqi 830002, Peoples R China; [Zhang Yuanming] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, Key Lab Biogeog & Bioresources Arid Land, Urumqi 830011, Peoples R China								8							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000401445300004		
J	Fernandez-Pascual, Eduardo; Perez-Arcoiza, Adrian; Alberto Prieto, Jose; Diaz, Tomas E.								Environmental filtering drives the shape and breadth of the seed germination niche in coastal plant communities								ANNALS OF BOTANY				119	7			1169	1177		10.1093/aob/mcx005			MAY 2017	2017	Background and Aims A phylogenetic comparative analysis of the seed germination niche was conducted in coastal plant communities of western Europe. Two hypotheses were tested, that (1) the germination niche shape (i.e. the preference for a set of germination cues as opposed to another) would differ between beaches and cliffs to prevent seedling emergence in the less favourable season (winter and summer, respectively); and (2) the germination niche breadth (i.e. the amplitude of germination cues) would be narrower in the seawards communities, where environmental filtering is stronger. Methods Seeds of 30 specialist species of coastal plant communities were collected in natural populations of northern Spain. Their germination was measured in six laboratory treatments based on field temperatures. Germination niche shape was estimated as the best germination temperature. Germination niche breadth was calculated using Pielou's evenness index. Differences between plant communities in their germination niche shape and breadth were tested using phylogenetic generalized least squares regression (PGLS). Key Results Germination niche shape differed between communities, being warm-cued in beaches (best germination temperature -20 degrees C) and cold-cued in cliffs (14 degrees C). Germination niche was narrowest in seawards beaches (Pielou's index = 0.89) and broadest in landwards beaches (0.99). Cliffs had an intermediate germination niche breadth (0.95). The relationship between niche and plant community had a positive phylogenetic signal for shape (Pagel's lambda = 0.64) and a negative one for breadth (Pagel's lambda = -1.71). Conclusion Environmental filters shape the germination niche to prevent emergence in the season of highest threat for seedling establishment. The germination niche breadth is narrower in the communities with stronger environmental filters, but only in beaches. This study provides empirical support to a community-level generalization of the hypotheses about the environmental drivers of the germination niche. It highlights the role of germination traits in community assembly.		[Fernandez-Pascual, Eduardo] Royal Bot Gardens, Comparat Plant & Fungal Biol, Wellcome Trust Millennium Bldg,Wakehurst Pl, Ardingly RH17 6TN, W Sussex, England; [Fernandez-Pascual, Eduardo; Perez-Arcoiza, Adrian; Alberto Prieto, Jose; Diaz, Tomas E.] Univ Oviedo, Jardin Bot Atlantico, Avda Jardin Bot 2230, Gijon Xixon 33203, Spain; [Fernandez-Pascual, Eduardo] Royal Bot Gardens, Comparat Plant & Fungal Biol, Wellcome Trust Millennium Bldg,Wakehurst Pl, Ardingly RH17 6TN, W Sussex, England; [Fernandez-Pascual, Eduardo] Univ Oviedo, Jardin Bot Atlantico, Avda Jardin Bot 2230, Gijon Xixon 33203, Spain								36							Plant Sciences	WOS:000404029100008		
J	Zambon, Ilaria; Colantoni, Andrea; Carlucci, Margherita; Morrow, Nathan; Sateriano, Adele; Salvati, Luca								Land quality, sustainable development and environmental degradation in agricultural districts: A computational approach based on entropy indexes								ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT REVIEW				64				37	46		10.1016/j.eiar.2017.01.003			MAY 2017	2017	Land Degradation (LD) in sodo-environmental systems negatively impacts sustainable development paths. This study proposes a framework to LD evaluation based on indicators of diversification in the spatial distribution of sensitive land. We hypothesize that conditions for spatial heterogeneity in a composite index of land sensitivity are more frequently associated to areas prone to LD than spatial homogeneity. Spatial heterogeneity is supposed to be associated with degraded areas that act as hotspots for future degradation processes. A diachronic analysis (1960-2010) was performed at the Italian agricultural district scale to identify environmental factors associated with spatial heterogeneity in the degree of land sensitivity to degradation based on the Environmentally Sensitive Area Index (ESAI). In 1960, diversification in the level of land sensitivity measured using two common indexes of entropy (Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness) increased significantly with the ESAI, indicating a high level of land sensitivity to degradation. In 2010, surface area classified as "critical" to LD was the highest in districts with diversification in the spatial distribution of ESAI values, confirming the hypothesis formulated above. Entropy indexes, based on observed alignment with the concept of LD, constitute a valuable base to inform mitigation strategies against desertification. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.		[Zambon, Ilaria; Colantoni, Andrea] Tuscia Univ, Dept Agr & Forestry ScieNcEs DAFNE, Via S Camillo de Lellis, I-01100 Viterbo, Italy; [Carlucci, Margherita] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Social & Econ Sci, Piazzale A Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Morrow, Nathan] Tulane Univ, Sch Law, Payson Program Int Dev, New Orleans, LA 70118 USA; [Sateriano, Adele; Salvati, Luca] Italian Council Agr Res & Econ CREA RPS, Via Navicella 2-4, I-00184 Rome, Italy; [Zambon, Ilaria] Tuscia Univ, Dept Agr & Forestry ScieNcEs DAFNE, Via S Camillo de Lellis, I-01100 Viterbo, Italy								75							Environmental Studies	WOS:000401381600005		
J	Sintayehu, Dejene W.; Heitkonig, Ignas M. A.; Prins, Herbert H. T.; Tessema, Zewdu K.; De Boer, Willem F.								Effect of host diversity and species assemblage composition on bovine tuberculosis (bTB) risk in Ethiopian cattle								PARASITOLOGY				144	6			783	792		10.1017/S0031182016002511			MAY 2017	2017	Current theories on diversity-disease relationships describe host species diversity and species identity as important factors influencing disease risk, either diluting or amplifying disease prevalence in a community. Whereas the simple term `diversity' embodies a set of animal community characteristics, it is not clear how different measures of species diversity are correlated with disease risk. We therefore tested the effects of species richness, Pielou's evenness and Shannon's diversity on bovine tuberculosis (bTB) risk in cattle in the Afar Region and Awash National Park between November 2013 and April 2015. We also analysed the identity effect of a particular species and the effect of host habitat use overlap on bTB risk. We used the comparative intradermal tuberculin test to assess the number of bTB-infected cattle. Our results suggested a dilution effect through species evenness. We found that the identity effect of greater kudu - a maintenance host - confounded the dilution effect of species diversity on bTB risk. bTB infection was positively correlated with habitat use overlap between greater kudu and cattle. Different diversity indices have to be considered together for assessing diversity-disease relationships, for understanding the underlying causal mechanisms. We posit that unpacking diversity metrics is also relevant for formulating disease control strategies to manage cattle in ecosystems characterized by seasonally limited resources and intense wildlife-livestock interactions.		[Sintayehu, Dejene W.; Heitkonig, Ignas M. A.; Prins, Herbert H. T.; De Boer, Willem F.] Wageningen Univ, Resource Ecol Grp, Droevendaalsesteeg 3a, NL-6708 PB Wageningen, Netherlands; [Sintayehu, Dejene W.; Tessema, Zewdu K.] Haramaya Univ, Coll Agr & Environm Sci, POB 38, Dire Dawa, Ethiopia; [Sintayehu, Dejene W.] Wageningen Univ, Resource Ecol Grp, Droevendaalsesteeg 3a, NL-6708 PB Wageningen, Netherlands								8							Parasitology	WOS:000401284400009		
J	Liu Haiping; Ye Shaowen; Yang Xuefeng; Guo Chuanbo; Zhang Huijuan; Fan Liqing; Zhang Liangsong; Sovan Lek; Li Zhongjie								Spatio-temporal variability of periphytic protozoa related to environment in the Niyang River, Tibet, China								CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				35	3			489	500		10.1007/s00343-017-5274-7			MAY 2017	2017	The Niyang River, a main tributary of the Yarlung Zangbo River, is an important and typical plateau river ecosystem in Tibet, China. At present, few studies have focused on its aquatic living resources and river ecology. In this study, the composition, abundance, and diversity of periphytic protozoa were investigated across four seasons from 2008 to 2009 to better understand their spatio-temporal patterns and relationship to the environment. Our investigation shows that periphytic protozoa in the Niyang River contained 15 genera, belonged to Tubulinea, Alveolata, Discosea and Rhizaria, Alveolata possessed most genera, up to nine, with highest share in abundance, exceeding 50%, Difflugia and Glaucoma were dominant genera. Moreover, four diversity indices of periphytic protozoa, including species richness, total abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index, displayed a significant descending trend as the seasons continued, in the order of winter, spring, summer and autumn; with a significant difference existing between winter and summer (or autumn) for Shannon-Wiener diversity index and species richness (P < 0.05). Four of these diversity indices also presented a V-shaped pattern between the upper middle course of the Niyang River and the confluence of the Niyang River and Yarlung Zangbo River, with the lowest value occurred in the middle course of the Niyang River. However, no significant variation was found through the Niyang River (P > 0.05). In addition, canonical correlation analysis (CCA) shows that the densities of Difflugia, Glaucomais, Enchelydium, Cyphoderia, and Enchelys correlate with water temperature, alkalinity, hardness, pH, and dissolved oxygen, respectively. Lastly, the relationship between periphytic protozoa diversity and the environmental factors of the Niyang River can be predicted using classification and regression trees (CART) annalysis, which suggests that the total abundance and Shannon-Wiener diversity index would be higher when the elevation is above 3 308 m. On the other hand, the Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index would be lower when pH and ammoniacal nitrogen have lower or higher values. Finally yet importantly, close attention should be paid to periphytic protozoa and its environment to ensure sustainable development of the Niyang River ecosystem.		[Liu Haiping; Ye Shaowen; Guo Chuanbo; Li Zhongjie] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China; [Liu Haiping] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Liu Haiping; Zhang Huijuan; Fan Liqing] Tibet Univ, Agr & Anim Husb Coll, Linzhi 860000, Peoples R China; [Yang Xuefeng] Xilinhot 6 Middle Sch, Xilinhot 026000, Peoples R China; [Zhang Liangsong] Fujian Marine Prod Tech Promot Stn, Fuzhou 350003, Peoples R China; [Sovan Lek] Univ Paul Sabatier, CNRS, UMR EDB 5174, 118 Route Narbonne, Toulouse, France; [Li Zhongjie] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, State Key Lab Freshwater Ecol & Biotechnol, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China								0							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000399168400003		
J	Joimel, Sophie; Schwartz, Christophe; Hedde, Mickael; Kiyota, Sayuri; Krogh, Paul Henning; Nahmani, Johanne; Peres, Guenola; Vergnes, Alan; Cortet, Jerome								Urban and industrial land uses have a higher soil biological quality than expected from physicochemical quality								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				584				614	621		10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.01.086			APR 15 2017	2017	Despite their importance both in soil functioning and as soil indicators, the response of microarthropods to various land uses is still unclear. The aim of this study is to assess the effect of land use on microarthropod diversity and determine whether a soil's biological quality follows the same physicochemical quality-based gradient from forest, agriculture-grassland, agriculture-arable land, vineyards, urban vegetable gardens to urban, industrial, traffic, mining and military areas. A database compiling the characteristics of 758 communities has been established. We calculated Collembola community indices including: species richness, Pielou's evenness index, collembolan life forms, the abundance of Collembola and of Acari, the Acari/Collembola abundance ratio, and the Collembolan ecomorphological index. Results show that agricultural land use was the most harmful for soil microarthropod biodiversity, whilst urban and industrial land uses give the same level of soil biological quality as forests do. Furthermore, differences between the proportions of Acari and ecomorphological groups were observed between land uses. This study, defining soil microarthropod diversity baselines for current land uses, should therefore help in managing and preserving soil microarthropod biodiversity, especially by supporting the preservation of soil quality. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Joimel, Sophie; Schwartz, Christophe] Univ Lorraine, Lab Sols & Environm, UMR 1120, F-54500 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France; [Joimel, Sophie; Schwartz, Christophe] INRA, Lab Sols & Environm, UMR 1120, F-54500 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France; [Joimel, Sophie; Hedde, Mickael] Univ Paris Saclay, UMR ECOSYS, INRA, AgroParisTech, F-78850 Thiverval Grignon, France; [Kiyota, Sayuri; Nahmani, Johanne; Vergnes, Alan; Cortet, Jerome] Univ Paul Valery Montpellier, EPHE, Univ Montpellier, UMR CEFE 5175, F-34199 Montpellier, France; [Krogh, Paul Henning] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Silkeborg, Denmark; [Peres, Guenola] INRA, UMR SAS 1069, Agrocampus Ouest, 65 Rue St Brieuc, F-35042 Rennes, France; [Peres, Guenola] Univ Rennes 1, UMR CNRS EcoBio 6553, Stn Biol, F-35380 Paimpont, France; [Joimel, Sophie] Univ Lorraine, Lab Sols & Environm, UMR 1120, F-54500 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France; [Joimel, Sophie] INRA, Lab Sols & Environm, UMR 1120, F-54500 Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France; [Joimel, Sophie] Univ Paris Saclay, UMR ECOSYS, INRA, AgroParisTech, F-78850 Thiverval Grignon, France								54							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000399358500060		
J	Levi, Peter S.; Starnawski, Piotr; Poulsen, Britta; Baattrup-Pedersen, Annette; Schramm, Andreas; Riis, Tenna								Microbial community diversity and composition varies with habitat characteristics and biofilm function in macrophyte-rich streams								OIKOS				126	3			398	409		10.1111/oik.03400			MAR 2017	2017	Biofilms in streams play an integral role in ecosystem processes and function yet few studies have investigated the broad diversity of these complex prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial communities. Physical habitat characteristics can affect the composition and abundance of microorganisms in these biofilms by creating microhabitats. Here we describe the prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial diversity of biofilms in sand and macrophyte habitats (i.e. epipsammon and epiphyton, respectively) in five macrophyte-rich streams in Jutland, Denmark. The macrophyte species varied in growth morphology, C:N stoichiometry, and preferred stream habitat, providing a range in environmental conditions for the epiphyton. Among all habitats and streams, the prokaryotic communities were dominated by common phyla, including Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteriodetes, and Gammaproteobacteria, while the eukaryotic communities were dominated by Stramenopiles (i.e. diatoms). For both the prokaryotes and eukaryotes, the epipsammon were consistently the most diverse communities and the epiphytic communities were generally similar among the four macrophyte species. However, the communities on the least complex macrophyte, Sparganium emersum, had the lowest richness and evenness and fewest unique OTUs, whereas the macrophyte with the most morphological complexity, Callitriche spp., had the highest number of unique OTUs. In general, the microbial taxa were ubiquitously distributed across the relatively homogeneous Danish landscape as determined by measuring the similarity among communities (i.e. SOrensen similarity index). Furthermore, we found significant correlations between microbial diversity (i.e. Chao1 rarefied richness and Pielou's evenness) and biofilm structure and function (i.e. C:N ratio and ammonium uptake efficiency, respectively); communities with higher richness and evenness had higher C:N ratios and lower uptake efficiency. In addition to describing the prokaryotic and eukaryotic community composition in stream biofilms, our study indicates that 1) physical habitat characteristics influence microbial diversity and 2) the variation in microbial diversity may dictate the structural and functional characteristics of stream biofilm communities.		[Levi, Peter S.; Baattrup-Pedersen, Annette; Riis, Tenna] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Aquat Biol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Drake Univ, Environm Sci & Policy, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA; [Starnawski, Piotr; Poulsen, Britta; Schramm, Andreas] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Microbiol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Aquat Biol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Drake Univ, Environm Sci & Policy, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA								26							Ecology	WOS:000395037400010		
J	Baldacchino, F.; Krcmar, S.; Bernard, C.; Manon, S.; Jay-Robert, P.								The impact of land use and climate on tabanid assemblages in Europe								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				239				112	118		10.1016/j.agee.2017.01.003			FEB 15 2017	2017	Land use and climate are important drivers of the diversity and abundance of insects. Tabanids (Diptera: Tabanidae) are haematophagous cosmopolitan flies that are pests to humans and livestock as well as mechanical vectors of animal disease agents such as Besnoitia besnoiti and the equine infectious anaemia virus. Given growing concerns about tabanid-borne diseases in Europe, there is a need to assess how land use and climate affect tabanid assemblages on the European scale. To investigate this, we used a dataset including 38 tabanid samples from 7 European countries to determine the geographical distribution of 79 tabanid species, and a dataset restricted to 32 samples from 4 countries to examine the relationship between tabanid assemblages and climatic and land-use variables. We also investigated the impact of the sampling method on findings. On the European scale, a non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination revealed that tabanid assemblages were spatially ordered along a marked gradient from Eastern to Western Europe. A model-based analysis of the multivariate tabanid abundance data showed that both climatic and landscape variables, but not sampling method, had a significant additive effect on mean abundance. Using linear mixed-effects models, we found that the Shannon diversity index decreased from 2.5 to 0.5 when the percentage of pastureland in a 2-km buffer around the sampling site increased from 0 to 80% and the annual mean temperature decreased from 16 to 4 degrees C, while Pielou's measure of species evenness decreased from 0.94 to 0.18 with an increase in the percentage of pastureland. We found that the community proportion of the two most common European species, Tabanus bromius and Haematopota pluvialis, was significantly associated with the sampling method. Our results indicate that the distribution and incidence of tabanid-borne diseases may be heavily influenced by changes in land use and climate and highlight the importance of environmental changes on insect vector populations. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Baldacchino, F.] FEM, Dept Biodivers & Mol Ecol, Res & Innovat Ctr, Via Mach 1, I-38010 San Michele All Adige, Italy; [Krcmar, S.] JJ Strossmayer Univ, Dept Biol, Osijek 31000, Croatia; [Bernard, C.] Univ Paul Valery Montpellier 3, Univ Montpellier, EPHE, CEFE,UMR 5175,CNRS, F-34293 Montpellier 5, France; [Manon, S.; Jay-Robert, P.] Univ Paul Valery Montpellier 3, Univ Montpellier, EPHE, CEFE,UMR 5175,CNRS, F-34199 Montpellier 5, France; [Baldacchino, F.] FEM, Dept Biodivers & Mol Ecol, Res & Innovat Ctr, Via Mach 1, I-38010 San Michele All Adige, Italy								6							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000397550100011		
J	Acikgoz, Halide Nihal; Kose, Serdal Kenan; Acikgoz, Ali								Determination of Early Colonizer Urban Blowfly Species Using Small Bait Traps on a University Campus								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				49	1			117	124		10.17582/journal.pjz/2017.49.1.117			FEB 2017	2017	The aim of the present study was to identify the urban blowfly species having forensic importance on Ankara University Medical Faculty Cebeci Campus in Ankara Eight small liver bait traps were used for catching flies Chicken liver was used in the study to attract blowflies. Eggs and larvae of the flies that oviposited on the liver were raised and identified. Six different indices were used to determine diversity (Shannon-Wiener [H'], Simpson Dominance [Sd], Simpson Diversity [5], Margalef Species Richness Indices, Pielou's Evenness [EH], and Simpson Resiprocal Indices). Calliphora-mina (Robineau-Desvoidy), Calhphora vontitoria (Lmnaeus), Luciha sericala (Meigen) and Lacilia rzchardsi (Collin) (Diptera. Calliphoridae) were identified. C. weina was found in whole year in 2012 and 2015 All of the fly species identified have forensic importance The highest taxa richness was observed in 2012, in May (307; 73.80%), while the lowest was in March (23, 5.53%) The highest taxa richness was observed in June (544; 21 92%), while the lowest was in January (6, 0 24%) in 2015 Macro and micro climatic factors and biodiversity of the fauna are significant for solving suspect entomological cases		[Acikgoz, Halide Nihal] Ankara Univ, Dept Forens Biol, Forens Sci Inst, Ankara, Turkey; [Kose, Serdal Kenan] Ankara Univ, Sch Med, Dept Biostat, Ankara, Turkey; [Acikgoz, Ali] Havacilar Family Hlth Ctr, Ankara, Turkey; [Acikgoz, Halide Nihal] Ankara Univ, Dept Forens Biol, Forens Sci Inst, Ankara, Turkey								2							Zoology	WOS:000398881500017		
J	Lemic, D.; Cacija, M.; Gasparic, Viric H.; Drmic, Z.; Bazok, R.; Zivkovic, Pajac, I								THE GROUND BEETLE (COLEOPTERA: CARABIDAE) COMMUNITY IN AN INTENSIVELY MANAGED AGRICULTURAL LANDSCAPE								APPLIED ECOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				15	4			661	674		10.15666/aeer/1504_661674			2017	2017	The effects of intensive agricultural management practices and environmental changes on biodiversity can be monitored by using the carabid beetles as biological indicators of agroecosystems quality. This study aimed to investigate the ground beetle species composition, abundance, dominance, diversity, zoogeographical types and distribution groups in an intensively managed agricultural field. Epigeic carabid fauna was collected weekly using pitfall traps on an arable crop field in Podravina, Croatia. Altogether, 1429 individuals belonging to 26 species and 15 genera were collected. The most abundant and eudominant were Poecilus cupreus (Linnaeus, 1758), followed by Brachinus psophia Audinet-Serville, 1821 and Pterostichus melas melas (Creutzer, 1799). Two species were dominant, two subdominant, four recedent and 15 subrecedent. The diversity of fauna was moderately high: Simpson diversity index 0.7875, Shannon-Wiener index 1.9654 and Pielou's evenness 0.6032. Zoogeographical analysis showed equal dominance of Euroasian and Palearctic species. Most (73%) of species belonged to E and 27% to A relict class. The majority of species were spring breeders (14 species), 8 species were autumn breeders and one species breeds in both seasons. In intensively managed agricultural landscape, ground beetle diversity was moderately high, because most of the species were eurytopic, i.e. capable of inhabiting strongly anthropogenically influenced landscapes.		[Lemic, D.; Cacija, M.; Gasparic, Viric H.; Drmic, Z.; Bazok, R.; Zivkovic, Pajac, I] Univ Zagreb, Fac Agr, Dept Agr Zool, Svetosimunska 25, Zagreb 10000, Croatia; [Lemic, D.] Univ Zagreb, Fac Agr, Dept Agr Zool, Svetosimunska 25, Zagreb 10000, Croatia								13							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000419994800045		
J	Koperski, Pawel								Taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional diversity of leeches (Hirudinea) and their suitability in biological assessment of environmental quality								KNOWLEDGE AND MANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC ECOSYSTEMS					418					49	10.1051/kmae/2017040			2017	2017	Different components of biological diversity of leeches (Hirudinea), sampled in lowland watercourses in Poland were compared between sites differed in terms of environmental quality, measured by officially approved procedures. Indices based on taxonomic diversity, rarefied species richness, taxonomic distinctness, phylogenetic diversity and functional diversity were considered in the analysis, for sites belonging to three biocoenotic types of watercourses. In most cases values of all indices except Pielou's evenness show unimodal relationships with environmental quality and in any case monotonic increase in diversity was not shown. Median values of diversity were significantly higher and its highest values were significantly more frequent at sites with moderate than with low or high environmental quality. This pattern of relationships was observed both for indices based on presence/absence data and those based on relative abundance of species. The significance of this mode of relationships differed between biocoenotic types and between procedures using to measure environmental quality. The results obtained show low and doubtful usefulness of each component of leech diversity as an element of biological assessment in lowland watercourses.		[Koperski, Pawel] Univ Warsaw, Ctr Biol & Chem Res, Fac Biol, Dept Hydrobiol, Zwirki & Wigury101, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland; [Koperski, Pawel] Univ Warsaw, Ctr Biol & Chem Res, Fac Biol, Dept Hydrobiol, Zwirki & Wigury101, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland								8							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000413535700001		
J	de Souza, Chayane Cristina; Higuchi, Pedro; da Silva, Ana Carolina; Souza, Karine; Dalla Rosa, Angelica; Chini Rech, Carla Carolina; Rodrigues Junior, Luiz Carlos; Walter, Felipe Fornara								FLORISTIC-STRUCTURAL VARIATION OF NATURAL REGENERATION ALONG DIFFERENT TOPOGRAPHIC POSITIONS OF AN ECOTONAL FOREST IN SANTA CATARINA, BRAZIL								REVISTA ARVORE				41	3					e410305	10.1590/1806-90882017000300005			2017	2017	Studies on the natural regeneration of tree species communities are important for providing information on forest development capacity. This research aimed to evaluate the floristic-structural variations of the tree regenerative component along a topographic gradient in an ecotonal area between a Mixed Ombrophilous Forest and a Deciduous Seasonal Forest of Santa Catarina, Brazil. 30 sampling units of which all regenerating tree species individuals have been identified were allocated in the forest fragment. The sampling units were then distributed along a topographic gradient into lower, intermediate and upper sectors. Abundance, richness, Shannon's diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J) have been determined for both the whole community as for each sector. The community floristic-structural organization was verified by the means of the nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), the indicator species analysis and the permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA). Abundance differences among sectors were analyzed through the Kruskal-Wallis test with post hoc multiple nonparametric test while richness differences were verified through rarefaction. Regenerating individuals density in the upper sector [129 (21.300 ind.ha(-1))] was lower than both in the lower [401 (63.800 ind.ha(-1))] and intermediary [241 (36.300 ind. ha(-1))] sectors. There was variation in the floristic-structural composition (p < 0.001) among topographic positions; the lower sector was the most distinct one and showed the highest number of indicator species.		[de Souza, Chayane Cristina; Souza, Karine; Chini Rech, Carla Carolina] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Programa Posgrad Engn Florestal, Lages, SC, Brazil; [Higuchi, Pedro; da Silva, Ana Carolina] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Engn Florestal, Lages, SC, Brazil; [Dalla Rosa, Angelica; Rodrigues Junior, Luiz Carlos; Walter, Felipe Fornara] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Engn Florestal, Lages, SC, Brazil; [Higuchi, Pedro] Univ Estado Santa Catarina, Dept Engn Florestal, Lages, SC, Brazil								3							Forestry	WOS:000410167700005		
J	Li, Ya-Fang; Du, Fei-Yan; Gu, Yang-Guang; Ning, Jia-Jia; Wang, Liang-Gen								Changes of the Macrobenthic Faunal Community with Stand Age of a Non-native Mangrove Species in Futian Mangrove National Nature Reserve, Guangdong, China								ZOOLOGICAL STUDIES				56						19	10.6620/ZS.2017.56-19			2017	2017	Sonneratia apetala, a non-native superior rapidly growing mangrove species with wide environmental tolerance, has been introduced to Futian National Nature Reserve in Shenzhen, Guangdong, China, for mangrove restoration since 1993. However, the community structure of the associated macrobenthic fauna, a vital component of energy flow and nutrient recycling, remains obscure. The present study analyzed the macrobenthic faunal community, associated habitat characteristics and physico-chemical properties of sediment in rehabilitated S. apetala forests at stand ages of 8, 9, 14, 16 and 20 years from November 2014 to May 2015. Habitat complexity and stand structural heterogeneity varied with stand age. Sediment physico-chemical properties were similar for all stands analyzed, although soil organic matter (SOM) content was significantly higher in the 20-year-old stand than in others. Shannon-Weaver (H') and Pielou's evenness (J) indices of macrobenthic fauna were highest in 14- and 16-year-old stands, respectively, and lowest in 8-year-old stands. In contrast, abundance and biomass peaked in 8-year-old stands and were lowest in 16-year-old stands. Multivariate analysis (cluster, ANOSIM and SIMPER) showed that the macrobenthic faunal community in the 20-year-old stand was different from other stand ages because of a greater abundance of small-sized mollusks and opportunistic species. Spearman correlation analysis showed that H' was positively correlated with salinity. The distance-based linear model suggested that SOM was a significant predictor variable correlated with the macrobenthic faunal community. However, SOM was the only significant predictor variable explaining 12.7% of the total variation; this implies that the spatial variation of the macrobenthic faunal community here was mostly independent of the sediment properties measured. Therefore, we conclude that habitat characteristics such as vegetation characteristics can potentially explain the majority of the variation.		[Li, Ya-Fang; Du, Fei-Yan; Gu, Yang-Guang; Ning, Jia-Jia; Wang, Liang-Gen] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Li, Ya-Fang; Du, Fei-Yan; Gu, Yang-Guang; Ning, Jia-Jia; Wang, Liang-Gen] Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Li, Ya-Fang; Du, Fei-Yan; Gu, Yang-Guang; Ning, Jia-Jia; Wang, Liang-Gen] Minist Agr, Key Lab South China Sea Fishery Resources Dev & U, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Du, Fei-Yan] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, South China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Du, Fei-Yan] Guangdong Prov Key Lab Fishery Ecol & Environm, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Du, Fei-Yan] Minist Agr, Key Lab South China Sea Fishery Resources Dev & U, Guangzhou 510300, Guangdong, Peoples R China								10							Zoology	WOS:000406790900012		
J	Caraciolo Ferreira, Rinaldo Luiz; Silva, Shirley de Oliveira; Aleixo da Silva, Jose Antonio; Lira, Mario de Andrade; Alves Junior, Francisco Tarcisio; do Nascimento, Ladivania Medeiros								Richness and diversity of Caatinga areas in different successional stages in northeastern Brazil								SCIENTIA FORESTALIS				44	112			799	810		10.18671/scifor.v44n112.02			DEC 2016	2016	In northeastern Brazil, areas converted for pasture and agriculture are often abandoned; therefore the recovered areas contain vegetation at different successional stages. The aim of this study was to characterize the diversity and structure of Caatinga vegetation areas with different histories of use in northeastern Brazil. Two areas were used: 1) preserved with no historical evidence of deforestation for agricultural purposes; and 2) regenerated after cultivation of Opuntia ficus-indica Mill., approximately 30 years ago. In each area, vegetation of 12 plots was collected, considering all individuals with circumference at 1.30 m above ground level (CAP) >= 6.0 cm. Collected species were classified according to dispersal strategy into the categories of anemochoric, zoochoric, and autochoric. For the analysis of a diversity, species richness, Shannon index, Pielou's evenness, and Simpson's index were used. beta diversity was evaluated using hierarchical cluster analysis. Structural analysis using density, basal area, and value of importance (VI) was conducted. A comparison between the diameter distributions of the areas was performed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Indicator species analysis (ISA) was conducted to identify the species preferences per area. The relationship of beta diversity with the differences in the composition of species and their densities were analyzed with TWINSPAN. The two areas showed significant differences (p < 0.05) in richness, density, and basal area. There was no significant difference in diversity. Cluster analysis indicated the formation of two floristic groups (40% dissimilarity), which was corroborated by TWINSPAN and ISA. The regenerating area after 30 years of abandonment showed similar species diversity as did the preserved area; however, floristic composition, species richness, density, and basal area did not recover. The similarity in diameter distributions between areas indicated that the abandoned area is recovering its regenerative capability.		[Caraciolo Ferreira, Rinaldo Luiz; Aleixo da Silva, Jose Antonio] UFRPE Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Dept Forestry Sci, Rua Dom Manoel de Medeiros S-N, BR-52171900 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Silva, Shirley de Oliveira] UNEC Ctr Univ Caratinga, Moacyr de Mattos 87, BR-35300047 Caratinga, MG, Brazil; [Lira, Mario de Andrade] IPA, Gen San Martin 1371, BR-50761000 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Alves Junior, Francisco Tarcisio] UEPA Univ Estado Amapa, Dept Prod Engn, Getulio Vargas 650, BR-68900070 Macapa, AM, Brazil; [do Nascimento, Ladivania Medeiros] PCR Prefeitura Recife, Jardim Bot, Getulio Vargas S-N,BR 232,Km 14, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Caraciolo Ferreira, Rinaldo Luiz] UFRPE Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco, Dept Forestry Sci, Rua Dom Manoel de Medeiros S-N, BR-52171900 Recife, PE, Brazil								6							Forestry	WOS:000393312800002		
J	Francis, A. W., Jr.; Knight, M. S.								A comparison of bridled and bridle-less ichthyoplankton nets in a variable flow estuarine environment								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ICHTHYOLOGY				32	6			1058	1064		10.1111/jai.13152			DEC 2016	2016	The effectiveness of bridled and bridle-less plankton nets for sampling ichthyoplankton from a fixed structure in a variable flow environment was examined. From 22 June to 19 September 2011, larval and juvenile fishes were collected weekly during night flood tides from the Moon River, an estuarine tidal creek south of Savannah, Georgia, USA. Passive horizontal tows were made from a fishing pier using two ichthyoplankton nets, each with a 1m diameter hoop and 1mm mesh. A bridled plankton net was configured with a tow rope attached to a traditional three-point bridle anchored to the hoop and a closed, 1L collection jar at the cod end. A bridle-less net was configured with a tow rope and a float tied to the top of the hoop while a weight was tied to the bottom of the hoop. The cod end of the bridle-less net had an open collection bucket with 1mm mesh. Nets were deployed simultaneously in the water column, just below the surface, for three consecutive 30-min tows. For each sampling date, pair-wise comparisons of nets were performed on mean values of fish abundance, species richness, species diversity, and species evenness. Mean abundance was the only consistent difference between bridled and bridle-less nets, with the bridle-less net having on average 4.870 times more fishes. Species richness (as measured by both number of species and Margalef's species richness index) tended to be greater in the bridle-less net, but not significantly greater. Species diversity (Shannon-Wiener diversity index) and species evenness (Pielou's evenness index) were also not significantly different between the two nets.		[Francis, A. W., Jr.; Knight, M. S.] Armstrong State Univ, Dept Biol, Savannah, GA 31419 USA; [Francis, A. W., Jr.] Armstrong State Univ, Dept Biol, Savannah, GA 31419 USA								0							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000387857900006		
J	Lorenzon, Rodrigo E.; Beltzer, Adolfo H.; Olguin, Pamela F.; Ronchi-Virgolini, Ana L.								Habitat heterogeneity drives bird species richness, nestedness and habitat selection by individual species in fluvial wetlands of the Parana River, Argentina								AUSTRAL ECOLOGY				41	7			829	841		10.1111/aec.12375			NOV 2016	2016	We assessed the relationship between habitat heterogeneity and bird species richness and composition within wetlands of the floodplain of the Middle Parana River, Argentina. Given the high habitat heterogeneity in these wetland systems, we sought to determine whether (i) there was a positive relationship between bird species richness and habitat heterogeneity; (ii) whether bird species richness was associated with certain types of individual habitat types; (iii) whether there was a pattern of species nestedness and turnover between sites as a function of habitat heterogeneity and composition, respectively; and (iv) whether individual species exhibited associations with habitat heterogeneity. Point counts were used to survey birds at 60 sites. We estimated the area of eight habitat types found within a 200-m radius from the centre of each site and calculated number and Pielou's evenness of habitat types. These indices, together with area proportion of each habitat type, were used as explanatory factors of bird species richness in linear regression models. Habitat heterogeneity per se rather than area of individual habitat types was a more important predictor of species richness in these fluvial wetlands. Sites with more habitat types supported more bird species. Results showed that individual bird species were associated with different habitat types and, therefore, sites that contained more habitat types contained more species. Number of habitat types accounted for species nestedness between sites whereas composition of habitat types accounted for species turnover between sites. Results suggest that selection of heterogeneous sites by individual species could help explain the positive heterogeneity-species richness relationship. Our findings highlight the importance of habitat heterogeneity per se resulting from flood disturbances in maintaining bird richness in fluvial systems.		[Lorenzon, Rodrigo E.; Beltzer, Adolfo H.; Olguin, Pamela F.] UNL, CONICET, Inst Nacl Limnol INALI, Ciudad Univ S-N, RA-3000 Santa Fe, Santa Fe, Argentina; [Ronchi-Virgolini, Ana L.] Univ Autonoma Entre Rios UADER, Entre Rios, Argentina; [Lorenzon, Rodrigo E.] UNL, CONICET, Inst Nacl Limnol INALI, Ciudad Univ S-N, RA-3000 Santa Fe, Santa Fe, Argentina								23							Ecology	WOS:000386750500011		
J	Feroz, S. M.; Al Mamun, Abdullah; Kabir, Md. Enamul								Composition, diversity and distribution of woody species in relation to vertical stratification of a tropical wet evergreen forest in Bangladesh								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND CONSERVATION				8				144	153		10.1016/j.gecco.2016.08.012			OCT 2016	2016	The composition, diversity and spatial distribution pattern of woody species were analyzed along the vertical profile of a tropical wet evergreen forest in Bangladesh. The forest stand consisted of five vertical strata. The species composition was moderately similar among the strata, while the highest degree of similarity was between fourth and bottom strata. Bursera serrata Wall. ex Colebr. was the most dominant species, and may be typically climax species together with Microcos paniculata L. ex W & A. and Maesa ramentaca (Roxb). A. DC in terms of their high importance values. Species-area relationships depict compositional instability of the present forest, because expected maximum numbers of species (165) were four times higher than the recorded numbers of species (40) for the total stand. Smaller species richness in the upper strata was compensated by greater species evenness (Pielou's index J'), resulting in almost constant Shannon's index H' across the strata. It indicates each stratum may have the same role in maintaining high woody species diversity. The rate of equality of individuals among the different species decreased with increasing species richness due to decrease of J' from the top stratum downward. The distribution pattern of the entire stand was greatly influenced by the aggregated distribution of the majority of the juveniles those mainly appeared in the bottom stratum. However, vertical strata shared a mixed distribution pattern of random and aggregate which followed from the upper strata to downward. This type of distribution pattern for stratified stand is probably consistent in tropical forests. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.		[Feroz, S. M.; Al Mamun, Abdullah; Kabir, Md. Enamul] Khulna Univ, Forestry & Wood Technol Discipline, Sch Life Sci, Khulna 9208, Bangladesh; [Feroz, S. M.] Khulna Univ, Forestry & Wood Technol Discipline, Sch Life Sci, Khulna 9208, Bangladesh								8							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000413277200015		
J	Zhang, Changshun; Li, Xiaoying; Chen, Long; Xie, Gaodi; Liu, Chunlan; Pei, Sha								Effects of Topographical and Edaphic Factors on Tree Community Structure and Diversity of Subtropical Mountain Forests in the Lower Lancang River Basin								FORESTS				7	10					222	10.3390/f7100222			OCT 2016	2016	We investigated community structure and tree species diversity of six subtropical mountain forests in relation to 11 topographical and edaphic factors in Lower Lancang River Basin, Yunnan Province, China, based on a census of all trees with diameter at breast height >= 5 cm in 45 0.06-ha plots. The forests were as follows: a river valley monsoon forest, semi-humid evergreen broad-leaved forest, monsoon evergreen broad-leaved forest, mid-mountain humid evergreen broad-leaved forest, summit mossy dwarf forest, and warm needle-leaved forest. Owing to the variation in microenvironment, forest structure (tree density, mean height, mean diameter at breast height, mean basal area at breast height) and tree diversity indices (the number of species, Margalef richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, Simpson's index, and Pielou's evenness) differed significantly among forest types but did not differ among sites. We recorded a total of 5155 canopy trees belonging to 204 tree species, 104 genera, and 50 families at three sites, and the co-occurrence of tree species between adjacent communities was higher. A clear forest community distribution along an altitudinal gradient suggested that elevation was important in tree species distribution. Ordination identified elevation, slope degree, slope position, soil pH, organic matter, total nitrogen, and available nitrogen as significant explanatory variables of tree species distribution and showed that elevation was more important than the rest of the environmental variables in affecting local woody plant distribution. Understanding relationships between tree species distribution and environmental factors in subtropical mountain forests of the Lower Lancang River Basin would enable us to apply these findings to forest management and vegetation restoration.		[Zhang, Changshun; Xie, Gaodi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Li, Xiaoying] Southwest Forestry Univ, Coll Environm Sci & Engn, Kunming 650224, Peoples R China; [Chen, Long; Liu, Chunlan; Pei, Sha] Beijing Municipal Res Inst Environm Protect, Beijing 100037, Peoples R China; [Xie, Gaodi] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Geog Sci & Nat Resources Res, Beijing 100101, Peoples R China; [Chen, Long] Beijing Municipal Res Inst Environm Protect, Beijing 100037, Peoples R China								36							Forestry	WOS:000388670800013		
J	Chen, Xinxin; Wang, Kai; Guo, Annan; Dong, Zhiying; Zhao, Qunfen; Qian, Jie; Zhang, Demin								Excess phosphate loading shifts bacterioplankton community composition in oligotrophic coastal water microcosms over time								JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL MARINE BIOLOGY AND ECOLOGY				483				139	146		10.1016/j.jembe.2016.07.009			OCT 2016	2016	Phosphorus (P), primarily as phosphate, is considered as a key trophic factor of eutrophication in coastal environments. Information on the response of bacterial community to excess phosphate loading in oligotrophic coastal water could provide insights into the micro-ecological effects on the expanding trend of nutrient-enrichment in coastal water. In this study, temporal dynamic of bacterioplankton community composition was investigated using 16S Illumina MiSeq sequencing technique in oligotrophic seawater microcosms manipulated with no perturbation (control) and a certain level of phosphate by two loading modes: 1) one-off loading at the beginning of incubation; and 2) periodic loadings every two days over a 16-day duration. The results showed that overall bacterial alpha-diversity temporally changed and achieved the lowest value in phosphate loading (P-loading) microcosms at day 8; phosphate-addition increased the Shannon index and Pielou's evenness compared with those of the control at day 16. Bacterioplanlcton community turnover across all the treatments showed a similar temporal pattern. P-loading significantly affected bacterioplankton community composition with negative correlations of Methylophilaceae and Flavobacteriaceae and positive correlation of Saprospiraceae. Periodic loading treatments demonstrated a greater effect on community variation than one-off loading treatments did. Moreover, excess P loading accelerated the temporal succession of the bacterioplankton community composition. These results provide insights into the pattern of bacterioplankton community phylogenetically responding to excess P-loading in the manipulated oligotrophic coastal system. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Chen, Xinxin; Wang, Kai; Guo, Annan; Dong, Zhiying; Zhao, Qunfen; Qian, Jie; Zhang, Demin] Ningbo Univ, Sch Marine Sci, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Kai; Zhang, Demin] Collaborat Innovat Ctr Zhejiang Marine High Effic, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Dong, Zhiying] Ningbo Univ, Fac Architectural Civil Engn & Environm, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Wang, Kai] Ningbo Univ, Sch Marine Sci, Ningbo 315211, Zhejiang, Peoples R China								7							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000382413400017		
J	Cui, Yang; Wang, Silong; Yan, Shaokui								Influence of soil faunal properties and understory fine root on soil organic carbon in a "mesh bag" approach								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY				76				19	25		10.1016/j.ejsobi.2016.06.005			SEP-OCT 2016	2016	The obstruction of fine mesh bag has been widely applied to study the functions of plant fine roots and soil fauna in ecosystems. However, plant fine roots and soil fauna can both be either excluded from the soil within fine mesh bags or admitted into the soil without mesh bags or within coarse mesh bags, because of their similar ranges of body width. As a result, both their effects could be influenced by fine mesh bags. In this study, we investigated the effects of soil fauna and understory fine roots on soil organic carbon, with a special type of fine mesh bags designed for obstructing the growth of understory fine roots into soil with free access of soil fauna. Results showed that both the biomass of understory fine roots and soil faunal diversity along with soil total carbon and microbial biomass carbon were significantly reduced by the fine mesh bags (P < 0.01). Boosting regression tree models showed that the understory fine roots contributed more in the variations of soil organic carbon than soil faunal properties. Faunal biodiversity represented by Pielou's evenness index was more important than taxa richness and individual abundances of taxa. Results suggest that understory fine roots may be more influential in soil organic carbon than faunal factors, and both their functions could be influenced by fine mesh bags in a mesh bag study. Evenness of individual abundances between taxa could be more important than taxa richness for the influence of soil fauna community on soil organic carbon. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.		[Cui, Yang; Wang, Silong; Yan, Shaokui] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Management, Shenyang 110016, Peoples R China; [Wang, Silong; Yan, Shaokui] Huitong Natl Res Stn Forest Ecosyst, Huitong 418307, Peoples R China; [Cui, Yang] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Wang, Silong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol, 72 Wenhua Rd, Shenyang 110016, Peoples R China								3							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000384857100003		
J	Hu Zhongjun; Jia Xixi; Chen Xihua; Zhang Ying; Liu Qigen								Spatial and seasonal pattern of macrozoobenthic assemblages and the congruence in water quality bioassessment using different taxa in artificial Mingzhu Lake in Shanghai								CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				34	5			928	936		10.1007/s00343-016-4244-9			SEP 2016	2016	The spatial and seasonal pattern of macrozoobenthic structure and its relationship with environmental factors were studied from July 2006 to April 2008 in Mingzhu Lake, Chongming Island, Shanghai at the Changjiang River mouth. The congruences in water quality bioassessment based on diversity and biotic indices and using different taxonomic categories were also explored to find the best assessment method of water quality for the lake. All major structural characteristics of macrozoobenthic community, including species composition, abundance, biomass and four biomass-based diversity indices (Shannon's diversity, Simpson's diversity, Pielou's evenness and Simpson's evenness index) fluctuated significantly in season but in space. The above four abundance-based diversity indices plus abundance-based Margalef's richness index did not display significant spatial variations; and significant seasonal differences were found in three indices only. Water temperature was the key environmental factor responsible for macrozoobenthic spatio-temporal distribution patterns. Water quality assessed by Shannon's index (H-a') and biological pollution index (BPI) rather than the other four biotic indices were consistent with those by trophic state index (TSI). Results from chironomids and oligochaetes did not always agree to those from the whole community when H-a' or Hilsenhoff biotic index was applied to bioassessment. Therefore, combining multiple indices and avoiding a single taxonomic category to assess water quality are strongly recommended and in Mingzhu Lake using a mixture of H-a' and BPI will ensure the most effective investigation of water quality. Our results also show that the main structural characteristics of macrozoobenthic communities in the small lake may display consistent spatial patterns.		[Hu Zhongjun; Jia Xixi; Zhang Ying; Liu Qigen] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Fisheries Germplasm Resources, Shanghai 201306, Peoples R China; [Chen Xihua] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yangtze River Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Biodivers Conservat & Utilizat, Wuhan 434000, Peoples R China; [Liu Qigen] Shanghai Ocean Univ, Minist Agr, Key Lab Freshwater Fisheries Germplasm Resources, Shanghai 201306, Peoples R China								1							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000379737000005		
J	Diaz-Perez, Leopoldo; Alejandro Rodriguez-Zaragoza, Fabian; Ortiz, Marco; Levi Cupul-Magana, Amilcar; Carriquiry, Jose D.; Rios-Jara, Eduardo; Paola Rodriguez-Troncoso, Alma; del Carmen Garcia-Rivas, Maria								Coral Reef Health Indices versus the Biological, Ecological and Functional Diversity of Fish and Coral Assemblages in the Caribbean Sea								PLOS ONE				11	8					e0161812	10.1371/journal.pone.0161812			AUG 31 2016	2016	This study evaluated the relationship between the indices known as the Reef Health Index (RHI) and two-dimensional Coral Health Index (2D-CHI) and different representative metrics of biological, ecological and functional diversity of fish and corals in 101 reef sites located across seven zones in the western Caribbean Sea. Species richness and average taxonomic distinctness were used to asses biological estimation; while ecological diversity was evaluated with the indices of Shannon diversity and Pielou's evenness, as well as by taxonomic diversity and distinctness. Functional diversity considered the number of functional groups, the Shannon diversity and the functional Pielou's evenness. According to the RHI, 57.15% of the zones were classified as presenting a "poor" health grade, while 42.85% were in "critical" grade. Based on the 2D-CHI, 28.5% of the zones were in "degraded" condition and 71.5% were "very degraded". Differences in fish and coral diversity among sites and zones were demonstrated using permutational ANOVAs. Differences between the two health indices (RHI and 2D-CHI) and some indices of biological, ecological and functional diversity of fish and corals were observed; however, only the RHI showed a correlation between the health grades and the species and functional group richness of fish at the scale of sites, and with the species and functional group richness and Shannon diversity of the fish assemblages at the scale of zones. None of the health indices were related to the metrics analyzed for the coral diversity. In general, our study suggests that the estimation of health indices should be complemented with classic community indices, or should at least include diversity indices of fish and corals, in order to improve the accuracy of the estimated health status of coral reefs in the western Caribbean Sea.		[Diaz-Perez, Leopoldo; Alejandro Rodriguez-Zaragoza, Fabian; Rios-Jara, Eduardo] Univ Guadalajara, Ctr Univ Ciencias Biol & Agr, Dept Ecol, Lab Ecosistemas Marinos & Acuicultura, Zapopan Jalisco, Mexico; [Ortiz, Marco] Univ Antofagasta, Fac Recursos Mar, Fac Ciencias Mar & Recursos Biol Invest Oceanol, Inst Ciencias Nat AvH,LAMSEC, Antofagasta, Chile; [Levi Cupul-Magana, Amilcar; Paola Rodriguez-Troncoso, Alma] Univ Guadalajara, Ctr Univ La Costa, Ctr Invest Costeras, Dept Ciencias Biol, Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, Mexico; [Carriquiry, Jose D.] Univ Autonoma Baja California, Inst Invest Oceanol, Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico; [del Carmen Garcia-Rivas, Maria] Reserva Biosfera Banco Chinchorro CONANP, Chetmal, Quintana Roo, Mexico; [Alejandro Rodriguez-Zaragoza, Fabian] Univ Guadalajara, Ctr Univ Ciencias Biol & Agr, Dept Ecol, Lab Ecosistemas Marinos & Acuicultura, Zapopan Jalisco, Mexico								30							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000382877400042		
J	Serranito, B.; Aubert, A.; Stemmann, L.; Rossi, N.; Jamet, J. L.								Proposition of indicators of anthropogenic pressure in the Bay of Toulon (Mediterranean Sea) based on zooplankton time-series								CONTINENTAL SHELF RESEARCH				121				3	12		10.1016/j.csr.2016.01.016			JUN 15 2016	2016	Zooplankton present characteristics of high interest in the frame of investigation for organisms sensitive to environmental changes and/or anthropogenic pressures. Such indicators are particularly needed in the present context of European legislation (Marine Strategy Framework Directive). However, zooplankton have not been given the interest they should have in regards to these issues. The aim of the present study is to provide an attempt of proposition of indicators of good environmental status and associated thresholds based on zooplankton data. Zooplankton time-series (2002-2013) from the Toulon Bay in the Mediterranean was used. This time-series presents the great characteristics that the sampling has be done jointly in two areas of the Bay of Toulon known to differ in term of anthropogenic pressures. The study focus on the copepod assemblage and different potential indicators are tested: ratio of copepod families on total copepod and diversity index (Pielou's evenness). The indicators relevance was evaluated per season by looking at the importance of the overlapping region between density's distributions for each indicator in both bays. This methodology well-recognized is commonly used, particularly in the medical sector, for a long time. The results show that the Oithonidae relative abundance and the Pielou's evenness index are the best indicators of anthropogenic pollution for this case study. Thresholds related to the selected indicators are also proposed in order to characterize the degree of anthropogenic pressure for the Toulon Bay and to provide a first evaluation for potential environmental management. Applicability of the selected indicators and future development needed are also discussed. This study is a first step in the investigation for operational zooplankton indicators and should open the way for additional studies in coastal anthropized area such as the Mediterranean coast where it is more urgently needed. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Serranito, B.; Jamet, J. L.] Toulon Univ, EBMA PROTEE Lab, EA 3819, CS 60584, F-83041 Toulon 9, France; [Aubert, A.] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS INSU, IRD, MIO,UM 110, F-13288 Marseille, France; [Stemmann, L.] Univ Paris 06, OOV, LOV, UMR 7093, F-06230 Villefranche Sur Mer, France; [Rossi, N.] CEVA, F-22610 Pleubian, France; [Serranito, B.] Toulon Univ, EBMA PROTEE Lab, EA 3819, CS 60584, F-83041 Toulon 9, France; [Aubert, A.] Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS INSU, IRD, MIO,UM 110, F-13288 Marseille, France				Aquatic Sciences Meeting of the Association-for-the-Sciences-of-Limnology-and-Oceanography (ASLO)	FEB 22-27, 2015	Assoc Sci Limnol & Oceanog	Granada, SPAIN	25							Oceanography	WOS:000378193500002		
J	Sakai, Shoko; Metelmann, Soeren; Toquenaga, Yukihiko; Telschow, Arndt								Geographical variation in the heterogeneity of mutualistic networks								ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE				3	6					150630	10.1098/rsos.150630			JUN 2016	2016	Plant-animal mutualistic networks are characterized by highly heterogeneous degree distributions. The majority of species interact with few partner species, while a small number are highly connected to form network hubs that are proposed to play an important role in community stability. It has not been investigated, however, if or how the degree distributions vary among types of mutualisms or communities, or between plants and animals in the same network. Here, we evaluate the degree distributions of pollination and seed-dispersal networks, which are two major types of mutualistic networks that have often been discussed in parallel, using an index based on Pielou's evenness. Among 56 pollination networks we found strong negative correlation of the heterogeneity between plants and animals, and geographical shifts of network hubs from plants in temperate regions to animals in the tropics. For 28 seed-dispersal networks, by contrast, the correlation was positive, and there is no comparable geographical pattern. These results may be explained by evolution towards specialization in the presence of context-dependent costs that occur if plants share the animal species as interaction partner. How the identity of network hubs affects the stability and resilience of the community is an important question for future studies.		[Sakai, Shoko] Kyoto Univ, Ctr Ecol Res, Otsu, Shiga 5202113, Japan; [Metelmann, Soeren; Telschow, Arndt] Univ Munster, Inst Evolut & Biodiversitat, D-48149 Munster, Germany; [Toquenaga, Yukihiko] Univ Tsukuba, Fac Life & Environm Sci, Ibaraki 3058572, Japan; [Sakai, Shoko] Kyoto Univ, Ctr Ecol Res, Otsu, Shiga 5202113, Japan; [Telschow, Arndt] Univ Munster, Inst Evolut & Biodiversitat, D-48149 Munster, Germany								6							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000380233100001		
J	Harris, Sydney A.; Shears, Nick T.; Radford, Craig A.								Ecoacoustic indices as proxies for biodiversity on temperate reefs								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				7	6			713	724		10.1111/2041-210X.12527			JUN 2016	2016	Diversity measurement techniques can present logistical and financial obstacles to conservation efforts. Ecoacoustics has recently emerged as a promising solution to these issues, providing a mechanism for measuring diversity using acoustic indices, which have proven to be beneficial in terrestrial habitats. This study investigates the application of acoustic measures as a tool for quick and effective marine diversity monitoring via direct, insitu comparison of ecoacoustics indices with species assemblage diversity measures from temperate rocky reefs. Acoustic recordings and visual surveys of reef fish abundance were collected at nine sites in north-eastern New Zealand. Three ecoacoustic indices originally developed for terrestrial use were then compared to three species assemblage diversity measures and compared using Pearson correlations. Additionally, four criteria for successful ecoacoustic indices were developed and tested as a means of standardizing future evaluation and use of acoustic indices: (i) positive correlations between species diversity and ecoacoustic indices in relevant frequency ranges, (ii) robustness to changes in spectral resolution, (iii) robustness to the presence of natural noise interference (i.e. wind) and (iv) robustness to the presence of anthropogenic noise. Acoustic Complexity Index (ACI) was significantly correlated with Pielou's Evenness (J) and Shannon's index (H). Neither Acoustic Richness (AR) nor ACI was impacted by changes in spectral resolution, but values of the Acoustic Entropy Index (H) increased significantly between fast Fourier transformation (FFT) sizes 512 and 1024. H was consistently positively correlated with both H and estimated number of species (S) above a spectral resolution of c. 1406Hz (FFT size 1024). Wind did not affect any of the acoustic indices. As anthropogenic noise was included in these investigations, both ACI and H were considered robust to its presence. While AR failed to meetall four criteria for a successful ecoacoustic indices, both ACI and H appeared to be appropriate for use on temperate reefs. In a time of accelerated global diversity loss, these two ecoacoustic indices show strong potential for use as efficient, non-invasive marine diversity measures.		[Harris, Sydney A.; Shears, Nick T.; Radford, Craig A.] Univ Auckland, Leigh Marine Lab, Inst Marine Sci, POB 349, Warkworth 0941, New Zealand; [Radford, Craig A.] Univ Auckland, Leigh Marine Lab, Inst Marine Sci, POB 349, Warkworth 0941, New Zealand				5th Anniversary Symposium of Methods in Ecology and Evolution	2015		CANADA	111							Ecology	WOS:000378731900009		
J	Paul, Sourav; Wooldridge, Tris; Perissinotto, Renzo								Evaluation of abiotic stresses of temperate estuaries by using resident zooplankton: A community vs. population approach								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				170				102	111		10.1016/j.ecss.2016.01.007			MAR 5 2016	2016	By using permanently resident zooplanlcton, we assessed the ecological level (i.e. community and or population) that provides more in-depth indication of the stress related to salinity and temperature fluctuations in temperate estuaries. In the semi-arid warm temperate South Africa, the Gamtoos estuary experiences a full salinity gradient maintained by irregular but relatively frequent freshwater pulses, whereas the Kromme estuary is euhaline throughout its extent and receives only occasional freshwater inputs when the storage reservoir six km upstream overtops. Changes in the species evenness index of Pielou and the abundances of estuarine resident zooplanlcton species were modelled against salinity and temperature variations of respective estuaries. In the Gamtoos estuary, response of individual populations provided more in-depth information regarding zooplankton variability. However the most abundant resident zooplankton i.e. Acartia longipatella a copepod was not the best predictor of the salinity and temperature fluctuations. Conversely, the Kromme estuary study provided insights into the potential vulnerability of the resident estuarine zooplankton community to cold. Further, the population level study exposed responses of specific species against salinity changes. We discuss the pros and cons of designing ecological indicators of abiotic stress based on specific species, targeted to specific ecological level, and needs of considering the frequency and magnitude of fresh water inflow in an estuary. A suggestion is to use specific taxonomic group(s) (e.g. Copepods) to better understand the abiotic stress factors of specific set of estuaries (e.g. freshwater rich/starved) until a 'one size fits all' indicator is found for temperate estuaries. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Paul, Sourav; Perissinotto, Renzo] Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Univ, Shallow Water Ecosyst, DST NRF Res Chair, Port Elizabeth, South Africa; [Wooldridge, Tris] Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Univ, Dept Zool, Port Elizabeth, South Africa; [Paul, Sourav] Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Univ, Shallow Water Ecosyst, DST NRF Res Chair, Port Elizabeth, South Africa								6							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000372379900010		
J	Hua Er; Mu Fanghong; Zhang Zhinan; Yang Shichao; Zhang Ting; Li Jia								Nematode Community Structure and Diversity Pattern in Sandy Beaches of Qingdao, China								JOURNAL OF OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA				15	1			33	40		10.1007/s11802-016-2686-5			FEB 2016	2016	We investigated the diversity and structure of free-living marine nematode communities at three sandy beaches representing typical intertidal environments of a temperate zone in Qingdao, Shandong Province, China. Average nematode abundance ranged from 1006 to 2170 ind. 10 cm(-2), and a total of 34 nematode genera were recorded, of which only 8 were common in all the studied beaches. Pielou's evenness and Shannon-Wiener diversity index were the lowest at the second beach where nematode abundance was the highest. The highest species diversity index coincided with the lowest nematode abundance at Shilaoren beach. Sediment median grain size, sorting coefficient, and chlorophyll-a content were essential for differentiation in nematode abundance and species diversity, whereas taxonomic diversity of nematode was homogeneous across the three beaches. In 0-20 cm sediment profile, nematode abundance declined abruptly with depth, whereas nematode diversity changed gently with obvious difference in 16-20 cm layer. Sediment granulometry and chlorophyll-a content were the two foremost factors which influenced the vertical distribution pattern of nematode generic diversity. Non-selective deposit feeders constituted the most dominant trophic group, followed by epistratum feeders. Bathylaimus (family: Tripyloididae) dominated at the second and Yangkou beach, while Theristus (family: Xyalidae) prevailed at Shilaoren beach. Omnivores and predators became important at Shilaoren beach because of the high proportion of Enoplolaimus. Even though, nematode community of the studied beaches did not differ significantly from each other.		[Hua Er; Mu Fanghong; Zhang Zhinan; Yang Shichao; Zhang Ting; Li Jia] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Mu Fanghong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								5							Oceanography	WOS:000371073400005		
J	Lopucki, Rafal; Mroz, Iwona								An assessment of non-volant terrestrial vertebrates response to wind farms-a study of small mammals								ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT				188	2					122	10.1007/s10661-016-5095-8			FEB 2016	2016	The majority of studies on the effects of wind energy development on wildlife have been focused on birds and bats, whereas knowledge of the response of terrestrial, non-flying vertebrates is very scarce. In this paper, the impact of three functioning wind farms on terrestrial small mammal communities (rodents and shrews) and the population parameters of the most abundant species were studied. The study was carried out in southeastern Poland within the foothills of the Outer Western Carpathians. Small mammals were captured at 12 sites around wind turbines and at 12 control sites. In total, from 1200 trap-days, 885 individuals of 14 studied mammal species were captured. There was no difference in the characteristics of communities of small mammals near wind turbines and within control sites; i.e. these types of sites were inhabited by a similar number of species of similar abundance, similar species composition, species diversity (H' index) and species evenness (J') (Pielou's index). For the two species with the highest proportion in the communities (Apodemus agrarius and Microtus arvalis), the parameters of their populations (mean body mass, sex ratio, the proportion of adult individuals and the proportion of reproductive female) were analysed. In both species, none of the analysed parameters differed significantly between sites in the vicinity of turbines and control sites. For future studies on the impact of wind turbines on small terrestrial mammals in different geographical areas and different species communities, we recommend the method of paired 'turbine-control sites' as appropriate for animal species with pronounced fluctuations in population numbers.		[Lopucki, Rafal] John Paul II Catholic Univ Lublin, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res, Konstantynow 1F, PL-20708 Lublin, Poland; [Mroz, Iwona] John Paul II Catholic Univ Lublin, Raclawickie Ave 14, PL-20950 Lublin, Poland; [Lopucki, Rafal] John Paul II Catholic Univ Lublin, Ctr Interdisciplinary Res, Konstantynow 1F, PL-20708 Lublin, Poland								16							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000369430100047		
J	Marchiori, Nidia Mara; Rocha, Humberto Ribeiro; Tamashiro, Jorge Yoshio; Marinho Aidar, Marcos Pereira								TREE COMMUNITY COMPOSITION AND ABOVEGROUND BIOMASS IN A SECONDARY ATLANTIC FOREST, SERRA DO MAR STATE PARK, SAO PAULO, BRAZIL								CERNE				22	4			501	514		10.1590/01047760201622042242			2016	2016	Projects involving floristic-phytosociological surveys are becoming increasingly frequent and is a very important tool to access the biodiversity, status of succession and biomass and carbon storage, guiding conservation and management strategies. These studies are particularly important in Atlantic Forest, which is considered a hotspot in terms of biodiversity, endemism and impacts. Sao Paulo State lost more than 80% of original forest and, nowadays, remains only isolated patches with a variety stage of succession and history of use. The aim of this study was to characterize the structure, composition and biomass of the woody plant community in a Montane Ombrophilous Dense Forest, Serra do Mar State Park. All trees with DBH >= 4.8 cm were sampled in 1 ha plot area, totaling 1,704 individuals belonging to 38 botanical families and 143 species. The highest species richness was found in the Myrtaceae and Lauraceae families, and the greatest value of abundance and Importance (IV) was observed in the Arecaceae and Euphorbiaceae. The Shannon index (H') was 3.7 nats.ind.(-1) and the Pielou's evenness index (J) 0.7, characterizing a very diverse community with heterogeneous distribution of individuals by species. The aboveground biomass was 166.3 Mg. ha(-1), similar to others studies in Atlantic forests. The forest composition, biomass and the history of land use indicate a middle secondary stage of regeneration, but evolving to a more mature condition.		[Marchiori, Nidia Mara; Tamashiro, Jorge Yoshio] Publ Univ Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Rocha, Humberto Ribeiro] Univ Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Marinho Aidar, Marcos Pereira] Inst Bot, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil; [Marchiori, Nidia Mara] Publ Univ Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil								12							Forestry	WOS:000394540800017		
J	Xu, Yong; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin								Status of macrobenthic diversity and distribution in Subei Shoal, China								AQUATIC ECOSYSTEM HEALTH & MANAGEMENT				19	4			411	419		10.1080/14634988.2016.1249257			2016	2016	Five cruise surveys were carried out in May-June 2013 to evaluate the status of macrobenthic diversity and distribution in Subei Shoal, China. Twenty-four stations were sampled and divided into four groups according to depth (5-10m, 10-20m, 20-30m and 30-35m). A total of 163 species were collected with Polychaeta dominating in species composition and abundance. All of the community parameters (abundance, biomass, mean species richness, Margalef richness index, Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's evenness) were not significantly different among the five cruises or among the four groups, except that Shannon-Wiener index at 5-10m was significantly lower than that in other depth groups. No significant difference in community structure was detected among cruises, but when the data from the same station were pooled together, significant differences among stations were observed basically from inshore to offshore. The benthic opportunistic polychaetes amphipods index showed four stations having moderate ecological status in Subei Shoal. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that Sigambra bassi and Praxillella sp. were positively correlated with depth and salinity, and Paralacydonia paradoxa was positively correlated with dissolved oxygen.		[Xu, Yong; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266000, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Qingdao Natl Lab Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Qingdao 266000, Peoples R China								6							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000390898900010		
J	Vukov, Dragana; Galic, Zoran; Rucando, Marko; Ilic, Milos; Cuk, Mirjana; Igic, Dusan; Igic, Ruzica; Orlovic, Sasa								EFFECTS OF NATURAL BROADLEAVED REGENERATION VS CONIFER RESTORATION ON THE HERB LAYER AND MICROCLIMATE								ARCHIVES OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				68	3			483	493		10.2298/ABS150727037V			2016	2016	This study was carried out on the Vidlic Mountain, eastern Serbia. The herb layer was surveyed in permanent plots on two localities: in a naturally regenerated beech forest and in a Douglas-fir plantation, in spring, summer and autumn 2011, 2012 and 2013. Air temperature, air humidity and soil moisture were measured. Species richness, Shannon's diversity index and Pielou's evenness index were calculated for each plot. Comparison of the abundances of species common to both forest stands was done using the Mann-Whitney U-test. The compositional gradient of the species data was examined using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and the species-environment relationship was analyzed by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Soil moisture and the total herb cover significantly differed in the naturally regenerated beech forest and Douglas-fir plantation. Floristic similarity between the surveyed forest stands was 28.12%. Although the dominant canopy species is known to be the strongest predictor of the herb layer, the model that includes all of the analyzed environmental factors explains the largest amount of the species variability. The species best fitted to this model are Dryopteris filix-mas, Galium odoratum, Pulmonaria officinalis, Sanicula europaea, Pteridium aquilinum and Rubus caesius. The analyzed forest stands are examples of two different post-disturbance regeneration strategies. Having in mind the limitations of this study, we can conclude that the naturally regenerated beech forest recovers faster: its herbaceous layer indicated nearly natural conditions, with only a few pioneer and disturbance-tolerant species. The herb layer in the Douglas-fir stand is still in the early seral stage, i.e. establishment.		[Vukov, Dragana; Rucando, Marko; Ilic, Milos; Cuk, Mirjana; Igic, Ruzica] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sci, Dept Biol & Ecol, Trg Dositeja Obradovica 2, Novi Sad 21000, Serbia; [Galic, Zoran; Orlovic, Sasa] Inst Lowland Forestry & Environm, Antona Cehova 13, Novi Sad 21000, Serbia; [Igic, Dusan] JP Vojvodinasume, Preradoviceva 2, Petrovaradin 21131, Serbia; [Vukov, Dragana] Univ Novi Sad, Fac Sci, Dept Biol & Ecol, Trg Dositeja Obradovica 2, Novi Sad 21000, Serbia								3							Biology	WOS:000384908900002		
J	Mbaka, John G.; M'Erimba, Charles M.; Karanja, Henry T.; Mathooko, Jude M.; Mwaniki, Mercy W.								Does the exclusion of meiofauna affect the estimation of biotic indices using stream invertebrates?								AFRICAN ZOOLOGY				51	2			91	97		10.1080/15627020.2016.1196120			2016	2016	Biomonitoring of rivers is usually undertaken using information based on macroinvertebrate assemblages. However, exclusion of meiofauna (i.e. invertebrates less than 0.5 mm in size) when sorting benthic invertebrates can affect the estimation of densities and other biotic indices. In the present study, the effect of excluding the less than 0.5 mm fraction of invertebrates on estimation of benthic invertebrate indices was investigated in the Naro Moru River, Kenya. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, a multimetric index, Simpson's diversity index, Margalef's diversity index, mean invertebrate density, taxa richness, and Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT) densities were determined. Only mean invertebrate and EPT densities differed significantly between the greater than 0.5 mm and total fractions. In conclusion, exclusion of meiofauna from invertebrate samples can affect the estimation of some stream invertebrate biotic indices.		[Mbaka, John G.; M'Erimba, Charles M.] Egerton Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Nakuru, Kenya; [Karanja, Henry T.] Egerton Univ, Dept Nat Resources, Nakuru, Kenya; [Mathooko, Jude M.] Global Res Akad & Mentoring Serv, Nakuru, Kenya; [Mwaniki, Mercy W.] Jomo Kenyatta Univ Agr & Technol, Dept Geomat Engn & Geospatial Informat Sci, Nairobi, Kenya; [Mbaka, John G.] Egerton Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Nakuru, Kenya								1							Zoology	WOS:000382558100003		
J	Xu, Yong; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin								Seasonal and spatial variations of macrobenthic community structure and diversity in the South Yellow Sea								AQUATIC ECOSYSTEM HEALTH & MANAGEMENT				19	1			92	100		10.1080/14634988.2016.1139429			JAN-MAR 2016	2016	Seasonal and spatial characteristics of the macrobenthic community in the South Yellow Sea were studied based on data from three voyages carried out in spring, summer and autumn, 2012. Twenty six stations were sampled and divided into three regions (west, middle and east region of South Yellow Sea). A total of 218 species were obtained with Polychaeta and Crustacea being the predominant groups. Mean abundance varied from 151.4 ind. m(-2) in spring to 188 ind. m(-2) in autumn showing an increasing trend with season, and mean biomass ranged from 12.1 g m(-2) in spring to 33.4 g m(-2) in summer. Mean secondary productivity varied from 0.21 g (AFDW)/(m(2).month) in spring to 0.48 g (AFDW)/(m(2).month) in summer. Biomass was significantly different among seasons, and number of species, secondary productivity and Shannon-Weiner index had significant differences among regions. Abundance, Pielou's evenness index and average taxonomic distinctness were not significantly different among seasons nor regions. Overall significant differences of community structure among both seasons and regions were detected. Depth and the distance from shore were important factors influencing the distribution of macrobenthos in South Yellow Sea.		[Xu, Yong; Li, Xinzheng; Wang, Hongfa; Zhang, Baolin] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Xu, Yong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Li, Xinzheng] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China								15							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000373112700010		
J	Wang, Meng; Dong, Zhibao; Luo, Wanyin; Lu, Junfeng; Li, Jiyan								Spatial variability of vegetation characteristics, soil properties and their relationships in and around China's Badain Jaran Desert								ENVIRONMENTAL EARTH SCIENCES				74	9			6847	6858		10.1007/s12665-015-4685-z			NOV 2015	2015	The Badain Jaran Desert is the second-largest desert with mobile dunes in China. Understanding its vegetation and soil characteristics and their relationships will support management and restoration of this ecosystem. To provide this knowledge, we selected eight areas for the study. We found 14 families, 28 genera, and 37 species of plants. The largest families were the Zygophyllaceae and Chenopodiaceae, accounting for 21.6 and 18.9 % of the total, respectively. The species richness (R (s)), Shannon-Wiener index, and dominance index (C (d)) differed significantly among the areas. Soils also differed in their water content and particle-size distribution. Total nitrogen, total phosphorus, available phosphorus, available potassium (AK), and electrical conductivity also differed significantly. However, soil organic matter, total potassium, AN, and pH did not differ. We found a significant correlation between AK and all diversity indexes except Pielou's evenness index (J (sw)). However, J (sw) was significantly positively correlated with pH. Redundancy analysis (RDA) revealed a relatively strong relationship between the vegetation and soil factors. The first RDA axis was associated with soil chemical properties; the second axis reflected changes in soil physical properties, but was not statistically significant. RDA suggested that AK was the only statistically significant factor in the study area. Our results describe the spatial variability of vegetation and soil properties, and show that the plant distribution was affected by soil factors, but not strongly. There was insufficient data available on precipitation, temperature, and geomorphology to permit an analysis of the potential effects of these factors; this data should be obtained in future research.		[Wang, Meng; Dong, Zhibao; Luo, Wanyin; Lu, Junfeng; Li, Jiyan] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Desert & Desertificat, Cold & Arid Reg Environm & Engn Res Inst, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, Peoples R China; [Wang, Meng] Chinese Acad Sci, Key Lab Desert & Desertificat, Cold & Arid Reg Environm & Engn Res Inst, 320 West Donggang Rd, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, Peoples R China								22							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Water Resources	WOS:000362425100020		
J	Alves da Silva, Danielle Karla; de Souza, Renata Gomes; de Alencar Velez, Bruno Augusto; da Silva, Gladstone Alves; Oehl, Fritz; Maia, Leonor Costa								Communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on a vegetation gradient in tropical coastal dunes								APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY				96				7	17		10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.06.009			NOV 2015	2015	The community composition of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) was studied related to AMF species richness, abundance and frequency in coastal dune areas, northeastern Brazil. Soil samples were collected periodically in 2010 and 2011 in three dune areas (herbaceous, shrubby and arboreal) that form an environmental gradient from the beach to the inland tropical rainforest. Fifty AMF species were identified belonging to 18 glomeromycotan genera and 10 families. Several remarkable observations were made: higher AMF spore density was observed in the arboreal dune compared to the shrubby and herbaceous dunes, while the highest number of infective propagules was observed in the herbaceous dune, followed by the shrubby and arboreal dunes. Although AMF species richness and AMF root colonization were similar in all dunes, the Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness indices were higher in the herbaceous dune than in the shrubby and arboreal dunes, which was the opposite in relation to the Simpson dominance index. Thus, surprisingly, the areas closest to the sea had greater diversity compared to the later successional dunes in farer distance from the sea. Funneliformis halonatus was the indicator species of the arboreal dune, Ambispora appendicula, Gigaspora gigantea and Paradentiscutata maritima were the indicator species of the shrubby dune, while two undescribed Cetraspora species and Sclerocystis sinuosa were the indicator species of the herbaceous dune. The study areas can be considered as hotspots for the conservation of diversity of AMF. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Alves da Silva, Danielle Karla; de Souza, Renata Gomes; de Alencar Velez, Bruno Augusto; da Silva, Gladstone Alves; Oehl, Fritz; Maia, Leonor Costa] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Micol, Programa Posgrad Biol Fungos, BR-50740600 Recife, PE, Brazil; [Oehl, Fritz] Agroscope, Fed Res Inst Sustainabil Sci, Plant Soil Interact, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland; [Alves da Silva, Danielle Karla] Univ Fed Pernambuco, Dept Micol, Programa Posgrad Biol Fungos, BR-50740600 Recife, PE, Brazil								21							Soil Science	WOS:000361880400002		
J	Maqbool, Asma; Sulehria, Abdul Qayyum Khan; Ejaz, Muhammad; Hussain, Altaf								Study on Pelagic Copepods from Pipnakha Village, District Gujranwala, Pakistan								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				47	5			1347	1353					OCT 2015	2015	Seasonal variations, density and diversity of fresh water copepods were investigated from October 2011 to August 2012. In total, 20 copepod species were identified. Density of copepods was high in spring and low in winter. Mesocyclops edax was the dominant species in summer, monsoon and fall, while Ectocyclops phaleratus and Eucyclops agilis were dominant in winter and spring respectively. Impact of selected physico-chemical parameters on population dynamics of copepods was also studied. Copepods density was positively correlated with temperature, pH, total dissolved solids (TDS) and turbidity and negatively correlated with dissolved oxygen (DO). Shannon-Weaver diversity index, Simpson index, Pielou's evenness index, and Margalef index were calculated to find out diversity of copepods. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed significant difference (F=22.36, P=0.000) in copepods density of all seasons. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to find out correlation between copepod species and seasons.		[Maqbool, Asma; Ejaz, Muhammad; Hussain, Altaf] Govt Coll Univ, Dept Zool, Lahore, Pakistan; [Sulehria, Abdul Qayyum Khan] Govt Islamia Coll, Dept Zool, Lahore, Pakistan; [Maqbool, Asma] Govt Coll Univ, Dept Zool, Lahore, Pakistan								1							Zoology	WOS:000363996800017		
J	Yuan, Jie; Wei, Xin; Shang, Zhengchun; Cheng, Fei; Hu, Zhaoyong; Zheng, Xiaofeng; Zhang, Shuoxin								IMPACTS OF CWD ON UNDERSTORY BIODIVERSITY IN FOREST ECOSYSTEMS IN THE QINLING MOUNTAINS, CHINA								PAKISTAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY				47	5			1855	1864					OCT 2015	2015	The stocks and characteristics of coarse woody debris (CWD) are expected to reflect forest stand features. However, despite their importance, there have been no reports of CWD stocks and characteristics in the Qinling Mountains. We measured the CWD stocks in different CWD types, decay classes and diameter classes of the five forest types in the Qinling Mountains. The highest biomass of CWD was the Pinus tabulaeformis forest (12.57 t.hm(-2)), occupied 5.66% in the biomass of this forest, the lowest occupied 1.03% in Betula albo-sinensis forest (1.82 t.hm(-2)). Our results revealed that there was a strong correlation between CWD and forest biomass. When the CWD biomass were 9.9 t.hm(-2) and 11.6 t.hm(-2), the biomass of Pinus armandi forest and P. tabulaeformis forest reached maximum, respectively. CWD is particularly important for biodiversity, but the importance of CWD in the control of diversity in forest systems has not been fully appreciated and certainly has not been evaluated intensively within China, especially in Qinling forests. In our research, we used species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener index (H), Simpson index (D) and Pielou's evenness index (J) to assess the diversity of plant community. According to our analysis, we found 1) the effect of CWD biomass onthese a diversity index was dependent on tree, shrub and herb in the five forest types, 2) the impacts of CWD biomass on understory biodiversity were more obvious, 3) With the increase of CWD biomass, the species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener index (H) and Simpson index (D) of understory increased significantly. Our results suggested that there was a relatively lower CWD biomass in the Qinling Mountains, but it had significant effects on forest biomass and diversity of plant community. Reserving CWD was important for eco-forestry, but how many and how characteristic of CWD should be retained need further research. Development of CWD reasonable strategies was indispensable for future forest management.		[Yuan, Jie; Wei, Xin; Shang, Zhengchun; Cheng, Fei; Hu, Zhaoyong; Zheng, Xiaofeng; Zhang, Shuoxin] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shuoxin] Qinling Natl Forest Ecosyst Res Stn, Ningshan 711600, Shaanxi, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Shuoxin] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Forestry, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, Peoples R China								5							Plant Sciences	WOS:000364339500033		
J	Wronski, Torsten; Dusabe, Marie Claire; Apio, Ann; Hausdorf, Bernhard; Albrecht, Christian								Biological assessment of water quality and biodiversity in Rwandan rivers draining into Lake Kivu								AQUATIC ECOLOGY				49	3			309	320		10.1007/s10452-015-9525-4			SEP 2015	2015	This study aimed at assessing the biological water quality and biodiversity of Rwandan rivers draining into Lake Kivu using benthic macroinvertebrates as indicator organisms. We tested the hypothesis that biological water quality and biodiversity are negatively affected by direct human perturbations and land-use changes in the surrounding habitat. Fifty-three rivers from 29 catchment areas were investigated using the 'Average Score Per Taxon' and the 'Baur Biotic Score' as indices for assessing water quality. The Shannon index and the Pielou's evenness index were used to measure biodiversity and evenness, respectively. Multiple linear regressions were applied to test the impact of hydromorphology, physical parameters, direct human perturbations and land-use change in the surrounding habitat on water quality and biodiversity. Baur Biotic Score and Average Score per Taxon indicated strong variation in the water quality of the investigated rivers. Best biological water quality was found in the rivers south of Kibuye/Karongi. Diversity was found to be moderate, but slightly increased south of Kibuye/Karongi. Evenness was also lowest south of Kibuye/Karongi. Multiple linear regression analyses indicated that the biodiversity estimations might be affected by the sampling time, but that the assessment of water quality was not. Water velocity significantly influenced water quality as well as biodiversity. Together with pH, it has also the strongest effect on the composition of macrozoobenthos assemblages. We showed that discharge of industrial waste water in the Burehe River resulted in an alarming deterioration of water quality that demonstrates the necessity of effective wastewater treatment for a sustainable usage of water resources. Long-term water quality monitoring is highly recommended to be established in Rwanda using a combination of physicochemical, bacteriological and biomonitoring data.		[Wronski, Torsten] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China; [Dusabe, Marie Claire; Apio, Ann] Univ Rwanda, Coll Vet Med & Agr, Dept Wildlife & Aquat Resources Management, Nyagatare, Rwanda; [Dusabe, Marie Claire; Albrecht, Christian] Univ Giessen, Dept Anim Ecol & Systemat, D-35392 Giessen, Germany; [Hausdorf, Bernhard] Univ Hamburg, Zool Museum, Ctr Nat Hist, D-20146 Hamburg, Germany; [Albrecht, Christian] Mbarara Univ Sci & Technol, Dept Biol, Fac Sci, Mbarara, Uganda; [Wronski, Torsten] Northwest A&F Univ, Coll Anim Sci & Technol, Yangling 712100, Peoples R China								14							Ecology; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000358581000005		
J	Wang, Ruilong; Dai, Tingting; Quan, Guoming; Zhang, Jiaen								Changes in soil physico-chemical properties, enzyme activities and soil microbial communities under <i>Mimosa pudica</i> invasion								ALLELOPATHY JOURNAL				36	1			15	23					JUL 2015	2015	We studied the activity of soil enzymes, soil physico-chemical properties and soil microbial communities in 4-areas divided according to the invasive intensity of Mimosa pudica. Soil organic matter, pH, total N, P, and K, available N contents were higher in the heavily invaded area than those in the newly invaded area, non-invaded area or native vegetation area. Compared to the native vegetation area, M. pudica invasion significantly increased the soil urease, invertase, protease, catalase and cellulase in the heavily invaded area. Soil microbial community functional diversity was studied and compared using BIOLOG-ECO plates. The BIOLOG results indicated that Shannon index, McIntosh index, Simpson index and Richness index of microbial communities in the heavily invaded area and newly invaded area were higher than those in the non-invaded area. But the Pielou's evenness index in the heavily invaded area and newly invaded area were lower than that in the non-invaded area. Our results indicate that M. pudica changes the soil physico-chemical properties and soil microbial communities, thus creating favorable soil environment to benefit its further invasion.		[Wang, Ruilong; Dai, Tingting; Quan, Guoming; Zhang, Jiaen] South China Agr Univ, Coll Nat Resources & Environm, Dept Ecol, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ruilong] South China Agr Univ, Key Lab Agroenvironm Trop, Minist Agr, Guangzhou 510642, Guangdong, Peoples R China								9							Agronomy	WOS:000357271300003		
J	Monolisha, S.; Edward, J. K. Patterson								Biodiversity of marine mollusc from selected locations of Andhra Pradesh coast, South eastern India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				44	6			842	855					JUN 2015	2015	Study on the diversity of molluscan fauna was carried out in eight locations along Andhra Pradesh coast. 70 species of mollusc including 44 species of Gastropods, 23 species of Bivalves and 3 species of Cephalopods were collected and documented. Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H') of Gastropods, Bivalves and Cephalopods ranged from 1.36 to 1.47, 1.11 to 1.21 and 1.06 to 1.43 respectively and Pielou's Evenness index ranged from 0.90 to 0.94, 0.90 to 0.96 and 0.35 to 0.92 respectively. Total percentage varies within the class Gastropoda, Bivalvia and Cephalopoda. Gastropod existed with highest range of 60% followed by Bivalvia with 32 % and the lowest range existed to be the Cephalopods with 8%. Fishers a range varied from 0.44 to 7.22. Brillouin index range varied between 1.06 and 3.42. Among the eight locations, total density was observed higher in Location II (Vadrevu) with 15.12% and least density range in Location 8 (Nellore harbour) with 7.67% as this study site was highly polluted due to anthropogenic activities near harbour. Umbonium vestiarium, Cerithidea cingulata were observed to be the dominant and maximum in numbers and the bivalves Perna viridis and Donax faba were found to be maximum in diversity.		[Monolisha, S.; Edward, J. K. Patterson] Suganthi Devadason Marine Res Inst, 44 Beach Rd, Tuticorin 628001, Tamil Nadu, India; [Monolisha, S.] Suganthi Devadason Marine Res Inst, 44 Beach Rd, Tuticorin 628001, Tamil Nadu, India								3							Oceanography	WOS:000379194900008		
J	Srichandan, S.; Sahu, Biraja K.; Panda, R.; Baliarsingh, S. K.; Sahu, K. C.; Panigrahy, R. C.								Zooplankton distribution in coastal water of the North-Western Bay of Bengal, off Rushikulya estuary, east coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				44	4			546	561					APR 2015	2015	In total, 186 species of holoplankton and 23 different types of meroplankton were encountered during this study. Zooplankton community was dominated by copepods represented by 112 species, belonging to 4 orders and 26 families Calanoida emerged as the most dominant order among the copepods being comprised of 68 species. It was followed by poicilostomatoids with 26 species, cyclopoids with 10 species and harpacticoida with 8 species. Paracalanus aculeatus emerged as the most dominant species during pre-monsoon season while, Acrocalanus longicornis was dominant in monsoon and A. gibber in the post-monsoon season. Other dominant copepods were Oithona sp., Miracia efferata, Acartia southwelli, Centropages tenuiremis, Paracalanus parvus, Acrocalanus gracilis and Acartia erythraea. Average zooplankton density ranged from 2387 org./10m(3) to 11659 org./10m(3). Zooplankton volume ranged from 0.65 ml/10m(3) in monsoon to 1.51 ml/10m(3) in post monsoon season. Despite high species abundance during premonsoon period, species diversity was maximum in monsoon. Species richness and dominance indices remained higher during post-monsoon whereas Pielou's evenness (J') was more in monsoon. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) ordinations based on Bray-Curtis similarities indicated that species composition was unequal during different months as there was no similarity above 40% level.		[Srichandan, S.; Sahu, Biraja K.; Panda, R.; Baliarsingh, S. K.; Sahu, K. C.; Panigrahy, R. C.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Odisha, India; [Srichandan, S.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Odisha, India								12							Oceanography	WOS:000378978200014		
J	Baliarsingh, S. K.; Srichandan, S.; Naik, S.; Sahu, K. C.; Lotliker, Aneesh A.; Kumar, T. Srinivasa								Seasonal variation of phytoplankton community composition in coastal waters off Rushikulya Estuary, East Coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				44	4			508	526					APR 2015	2015	A total of 149 phytoplankton species were identified during the study period wherein diatoms contributed 109, dinoflagellates 28, green algae 6, cyanobacteria 4 and cocolithophores 2. A striking feature of the study is the new record of 26 species from coastal waters vicinity off Rushikulya estuary (coastal and estuarine waters extending from Rushikulya to Bahuda) and 15 species from entire coastal waters of Odisha. A contrast in phytoplankton species composition was noticed in all seasons. Diatoms found as the dominant prevailing phytoplankton group in all seasons in terms of number of species and abundance. Diatom species viz. Thalassiothix longissima, Skeletonema costatum, Coscinodiscus eccentricus were ubiquitous off Rushikulya estuary throughout the year. River and monsoon influence coastal waters in supplying macronutrients for phytoplankton growth. Nitrogenous nutrients were found to be controlling factor for phytoplankton growth. A linear relationship between phytoplankton abundance and chlorophyll-alpha was observed during three seasons. Despite the highest species abundance during premonsoon, species diversity index showed maximum for postmonsoon and monsoon periods due to preponderance of few diatom species. Species were found to be more evenly distributed during monsoon as indicated from the Pielou's evenness (J') index. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) ordinations based on Bray-Curtis similarities indicated that phytoplankton communities prevailed in March and April were the least similar to those on other sampling occasions.		[Baliarsingh, S. K.; Srichandan, S.; Naik, S.; Sahu, K. C.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Odisha, India; [Baliarsingh, S. K.; Lotliker, Aneesh A.; Kumar, T. Srinivasa] Indian Natl Ctr Ocean Informat Serv, Hyderabad 500090, Andhra Pradesh, India; [Naik, S.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Odisha, India								4							Oceanography	WOS:000378978200010		
J	Yemane, Dawit; Mafwila, Samuel K.; Kathena, John; Nsiangango, Silvi E.; Kirkman, Steve P.								Spatio-temporal trends in diversity of demersal fish species in the Benguela current large marine ecosystem region								FISHERIES OCEANOGRAPHY				24				102	121		10.1111/fog.12075			MAR 2015	2015	Biodiversity is changing at an unprecedented rate on a global scale as a complex response to several anthropogenic changes, in addition to the background natural environmental variability and cycles. In the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem region (BCLME), aspects of demersal fish species diversity were studied between 1985 and 2010 in three countries (Angola, Namibia, and South Africa) using scientific survey data (depending on country). The study was aimed to address multi-tiered objectives: to document patterns of diversity (as measured by the different indices of diversity) in the three countries; to relate these patterns to various explanatory variables (depth, latitude, longitude, bottom temperature, and total catch) using a generalized additive model; and to compare the patterns of diversity and importance of potential drivers of biodiversity across the BCLME region. Results showed contrasting diversity patterns between the three countries in terms of both the form and strength of the relationship with different sets of predictors. Species richness S, Pielou's evenness index J', and Shannon-Wiener index H' were shown to increase with increasing depth in all three countries. In addition, both the overall and depth-dependent latitudinal pattern in S showed local and regional level bottlenecks in biodiversity, and the latitudinal pattern of S was similar to the pattern of bottom temperature. Overall, the species richness of demersal fish species (S) was found to increase as one moved towards the equator, in line with similar studies that reported an increase in richness with latitude.		[Yemane, Dawit] Dept Agr Forestry & Fisheries, Fisheries Branch, ZA-8012 Cape Town, South Africa; [Yemane, Dawit] Univ Cape Town, Marine Res Inst MA RE, ZA-7700 Cape Town, South Africa; [Mafwila, Samuel K.] Univ Namibia, Dept Fisheries & Aquat Sci, Windhoek, Namibia; [Kathena, John] Minist Fisheries & Marine Resources, Natl Marine Informat & Res Ctr, Swakopmund, Namibia; [Nsiangango, Silvi E.] INIP, Luanda 2601, Angola; [Kirkman, Steve P.] Dept Environm Affairs Branch Oceans & Coasts Res, ZA-8000 Cape Town, South Africa; [Kirkman, Steve P.] Univ Cape Town, Dept Zool, Anim Demog Unit, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Mafwila, Samuel K.] Univ Namibia, Dept Fisheries & Aquat Sci, Private Bag 13301, Windhoek, Namibia								7							Fisheries; Oceanography	WOS:000349666700009		
J	Tang, Shengkai; Zhang, Tongqing; Lu, Jianming; Li, Daming; Pan, Jianlin; Duan, Cuilan								Temporal and spatial variation in fish assemblages in Lake Taihu, China								JOURNAL OF FRESHWATER ECOLOGY				30	1			181	196		10.1080/02705060.2015.1007098			JAN 2 2015	2015	Set-net surveys were performed monthly between January 2010 and December 2012 at six sampling sites in Lake Taihu in order to determine the spatial and temporal variation in fish assemblages in Lake Taihu and to assess the influence on fish assemblages of eutrophication and disconnection of migration routes. A total of 134,604 specimens (1456.7 kg total biomass) were caught, representing 61 species, 18 families, and 10 orders. Cyprinidae fish (36 species) contributed most of the total species richness and the most dominant species was Coilia nasus. Sampling months and sampling sites each significantly affected the Margalef richness index, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H '), and Pielou's evenness index (J ') of fish assemblages and there were interactive effects between them. The ANOSIM analysis indicated that the fish assemblage structure had significant differences among the sample sites. Total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorus (TP) both differed significantly among sites. The results of correlation analyses suggested that there was a significant negative correlation between two indices (H ' and J ') and both TP and TN (p < 0.01) as well as a significant positive correlation of catch per unit effort with both TP and TN (p < 0.01). Our results suggest that eutrophication in Lake Taihu has led to an increase in small-sized phytoplanktivorous and zooplanktivorous fishes and a decrease in prey availability for predatory fishes. Thus, the relative importance of small-sized fishes has increased and a few small-sized species (e.g., C. nasus) have become the dominant species, as reflected by reductions in the species diversity indices (H ' and J ').		[Tang, Shengkai; Zhang, Tongqing; Li, Daming; Pan, Jianlin] Freshwater Fisheries Res Inst Jiangsu Prov, Key Lab Fisheries Resources Inland Water Jiangsu, Nanjing 210017, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Lu, Jianming] Lake Taihu Fishery Management Commiss Jiangsu Pro, Suzhou 215168, Peoples R China; [Duan, Cuilan] Jiangsu Prov Fishery Tech Extending Ctr, Environm Monitoring Dept, Nanjing 210036, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Tang, Shengkai] Freshwater Fisheries Res Inst Jiangsu Prov, Key Lab Fisheries Resources Inland Water Jiangsu, Nanjing 210017, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								3							Ecology; Limnology	WOS:000349681400005		
J	Yang Shaorong; Li Mingzheng; Liu Huanzhang								SEASONAL DYNAMIC OF FISH COMMUNITIES IN THE THREE GORGES RESERVOIR OF THE YANGTZE RIVER, CHINA								DELTAS OF THE FUTURE AND WHAT HAPPENS UPSTREAM								615	627					2015	2015	To investigate impacts of reservoir impoundment on fish communities, the monthly investigation on fish communities in the Mudong and Wanzhou sections in the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) of the Yangtze River, China were conducted from June 2007 to October 2008. The Mudong section is at the end of the TGR where the environment is still river-like, while the Wanzhou section is in the middle of the TGR and the water is much stagnant. A total of 38 species were found in Mudong section and 58 species in Wanzhou section during the investigation period, and there were significant differences in the fish compositions between these two sections. Rheophilic species such as Coreius guichenoti, Gobiobotia filifer, Pelteobagrus vachelli, Pelteobagrus nitidus, C. Heterodon and Saurogobio dabryi were the dominant species in the Mudong section. And the fish species endemic to the upper reaches of the Yangtze River accounted for a certain proportion in this section. In contrast, the Wanzhou section were dominated by limnophilic species such as Hemiculter bleekeri, Cyprinus carpio, Carassius auratus, Hemiculter leucisculus, and Hypophthalmichthys molitrix. Besides, several exotic species were found in Wanzhou section. For both these sections, the Margalef index (D) and Shannon-Wiener index (H') were higher in low water seasons than in other seasons, and Pielou's evenness index (J') was stable through all the time. The multivariate analysis of the monthly samples indicated a significant seasonal change in the fish community. And our analysis indicate different seasonal dynamic of fish communities in different sections of the TGR, and therefore the different impacts of the reservoir impoundment.		[Yang Shaorong] China Three Gorges Corp, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China; [Li Mingzheng; Liu Huanzhang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, Wuhan 430072, Peoples R China; [Yang Shaorong] China Three Gorges Corp, Chengdu 610041, Peoples R China				36th IAHR World Congress	JUN 28-JUL 03, 2015	Int Assoc Hydro Environm Engn & Res; Boskalis; Van Oord; UNESCO IHE; Delft Univ Technol; Deltares; Minist Infrastructure & Environm, Rijkswaterstaat; Royal HaskoningDHV; ARCADIS; WItteveen Bos; AANDERAA; Prince Sultan Bin Abulaziz Int Prize Water	Delft, NETHERLANDS	0							Water Resources	WOS:000398996200074		
J	Bharadhirajan, P.; Murugan, S.; Gopalakershanan, A.; Murugesan, P.								Finfish diversity in Coleroon estuary, Southeast coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				44	1			104	109					JAN 2015	2015	Present study was undertaken to record diversity, species richness and species evenness of finfishes in Coleroon Estuary from May 2012 to April 2013. A total of 59 species were recorded which belonged to 9 Orders, 26 Families and 30 Genera. Among them Mugil cephalus was found most dominant species (23.5%). Values of Shannon diversity index, Simpson richness and Pielou's evenness for three zones varied from 1.5 to 3.2, 0.7 to 0.9 and 0.6 to 0.9 respectively. Maximum diversity and richness were recorded during summer (3.2), (0.93) (June-2012) and the lowest during monsoon season (1.5), (0.73) (November-2012). Percentage wise catches of fishes were in the Order Perciformes (85.42%) followed by Clupeiformes (6.60%), Siluriformes (2.47%), Gonorhynchiformes (1.83%), Pleuronectiformes (1.20%), Elopiformes (1.15%), Scorpaeniformes (0.99%), Beloniformes (0.35%) and Anguilliformes (0.19%). Maximum catches were in order Perciformes 79,508 kg and minimum catches was in Anguilliformes 180 kg.		[Bharadhirajan, P.; Murugan, S.; Gopalakershanan, A.; Murugesan, P.] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, India; [Bharadhirajan, P.] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Fac Marine Sci, Parangipettai 608502, India								6							Oceanography	WOS:000378978000015		
J	Chakraborty, Arindam; Padmavati, Gadi; Ghosh, Amit K.								Tidal variation of phytoplankton in the coastal waters of South Andaman, India								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				36	1			207	214					JAN 2015	2015	Tidal variations of phytoplankton were studied at two stations i.e., Station 1 (Science Centre) and Station 2 (Junglighat Bay) during the period of December 2010 to February 2011 in the coastal waters of South Andaman Islands, India. Phytoplankton biomass (Chlorophyll-a) was observed low (avg. 0.02-0.1 mg m(-3)) at the stations during the sampling period. Low values of dissolved oxygen and biochemical oxygen demand were recorded during low tide. In all 114 species belonging to 42 genera of diatoms, 16 genera of dinoflagellates and 4 genera of cyanobacteria were identified. Phytoplankton population density ranged from 827cells l(-1) to 11,790 cells l(-1) and was high during high tide in comparison to low tide. Diatoms were dominant (70.86-88.0%) and contributed more towards phytoplankton biomass followed by dinofiagellates (10.8-19.53%) and cyanobacteria (0.73-9.4%). Dinoflagellates were visualised more in the samples when diatom population had declined. Diversity indices such as species diversity (H') ranged from 0.68-3.1; species richness (d) varied from 2.18-6.54 and Pielou's evenness (J') ranged from 0.24-0.94. H' was more during high tide than at low tide at Station 2. On the other hand, low diversity and equitability in phytoplankton population were observed at Station 1 during the month of January, 2011. It may be due to dominance of mono specific cells of Rhizosolenia sp. The study indicates low production of phytoplankton in coastal waters. Variation of tides may leave implications on sampling, because it has an influence on species diversity and proportion of specific micro algal groups at different times.		[Chakraborty, Arindam; Ghosh, Amit K.] Birbal Sahni Inst Paleobot, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Chakraborty, Arindam; Padmavati, Gadi] Pondicherry Univ, Dept Ocean Studies & Marine Biol, Port Blair 744112, India; [Chakraborty, Arindam] Birbal Sahni Inst Paleobot, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India								3							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000348489300004		
J	Guo, Yanyan; Feng, Yanjie; Ge, Yang; Tetreau, Guillaume; Chen, Xiaowen; Dong, Xuehui; Shi, Wangpeng								The Cultivation of Bt Corn Producing Cry1Ac Toxins Does Not Adversely Affect Non-Target Arthropods								PLOS ONE				9	12					e114228	10.1371/journal.pone.0114228			DEC 1 2014	2014	Transgenic corn producing Cry1Ac toxins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) provides effective control of Asian corn borer, Ostrinia furnacalis (Guenee), and thus reduces insecticide applications. However, whether Bt corn exerts undesirable effects on non-target arthropods (NTAs) is still controversial. We conducted a 2-yr study in Shangzhuang Agricultural Experiment Station to assess the potential impact of Bt corn on field population density, biodiversity, community composition and structure of NTAs. On each sampling date, the total abundance, Shannon's diversity index, Pielou's evenness index and Simpson's diversity index were not significantly affected by Bt corn as compared to non-Bt corn. The "sampling dates'' had a significant effect on these indices, but no clear tendencies related to "Bt corn'' or "sampling dates X corn variety'' interaction were recorded. Principal response curve analysis of variance indicated that Bt corn did not alter the distribution of NTAs communities. Bray-Curtis dissimilarity and distance analysis showed that Cry1Ac toxin exposure did not increase community dissimilarities between Bt and non-Bt corn plots and that the evolution of non-target arthropod community was similar on the two corn varieties. The cultivation of Bt corn failed to show any detrimental evidence on the density of non-target herbivores, predators and parasitoids. The composition of herbivores, predators and parasitoids was identical in Bt and non-Bt corn plots. Taken together, results from the present work support that Bt corn producing Cry1Ac toxins does not adversely affect NTAs.		[Guo, Yanyan; Feng, Yanjie; Ge, Yang; Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China; [Guo, Yanyan; Tetreau, Guillaume] Cornell Univ, New York State Agr Expt Stn, Dept Entomol, Geneva, NY 14456 USA; [Chen, Xiaowen; Dong, Xuehui] China Agr Univ, Dept Agr Sci, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China; [Shi, Wangpeng] China Agr Univ, Dept Entomol, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China								20							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000347114900132		
J	Yuan Mingli; Zhang Cuixia; Jiang Zengjie; Guo Shujin; Sun Jun								Seasonal variations in phytoplankton community structure in the Sanggou, Ailian, and Lidao Bays								JOURNAL OF OCEAN UNIVERSITY OF CHINA				13	6			1012	1024		10.1007/s11802-014-2305-2			DEC 2014	2014	The seasonal variations in phytoplankton community structure were investigated for the Sanggou Bay (SGB) and the adjacent Ailian Bay (ALB) and Lidao Bay (LDB) in Shandong Peninsula, eastern China. The species composition and cell abundance of phytoplankton in the bay waters in spring (April 2011), summer (August 2011), autumn (October 2011), and winter (January 2012) were examined using the Utermohl method. A total of 80 taxa of phytoplankton that belong to 39 genera of 3 phyla were identified. These included 64 species of 30 genera in the Phylum Bacillariophyta, 13 species of 8 genera in the Phylum Dinophyta, and 3 species of 1 genus in the Phylum Chrysophyta. During the four seasons, the number of phytoplankton species (43) was the highest in spring, followed by summer and autumn (40), and the lowest number of phytoplankton species (35) was found in winter. Diatoms, especially Paralia sulcata (Ehrenberg) Cleve and Coscinodiscus oculus-iridis Ehrenberg, were predominant in the phytoplankton community throughout the study period, whereas the dominance of dinoflagellate appeared in summer only. The maximum cell abundance of phytoplankton was detected in summer (average 8.08 x 10(3) cells L-1) whereas their minimum abundance was found in autumn (average 2.60 x 10(3) cells L-1). The phytoplankton abundance was generally higher in the outer bay than in the inner bay in spring and autumn. In summer, the phytoplankton cells were mainly concentrated in the south of inner SGB, with peak abundance observed along the western coast. In winter, the distribution of phytoplankton cells showed 3 patches, with peak abundance along the western coast as well. On seasonal average, the Shannon-Wiener diversity indices of phytoplankton community ranged from 1.17 to 1.78 (autumn > summer > spring > winter), and the Pielou's evenness indices of phytoplankton ranged from 0.45 to 0.65 (autumn > spring > summer > winter). According to the results of canonical correspondence analysis, phosphate level was the major factor that limited the occurrence of P. sulcata and C. oculus-iridis, whereas optimal temperature and low salinity were responsible for Prorocentrum blooms in summer. The detailed description of seasonal variations in phytoplankton community structure in the three bays provide reference data for future studies on marine ecosystems and mariculture in adjacent areas.		[Yuan Mingli; Zhang Cuixia; Guo Shujin; Sun Jun] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Marine Sci & Engn, Tianjin 300457, Peoples R China; [Jiang Zengjie] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Sun Jun] Tianjin Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Marine Sci & Engn, Tianjin 300457, Peoples R China								21							Oceanography	WOS:000344788700018		
J	Jiang, Yong; Yang, Eun Jin; Kim, Sun Yong; Kim, Young-Nam; Lee, SangHoon								Spatial patterns in pelagic ciliate community responses to various habitats in the Amundsen Sea (Antarctica)								PROGRESS IN OCEANOGRAPHY				128				49	59		10.1016/j.pocean.2014.08.006			NOV 2014	2014	To investigate the impacts of climate change on environmental conditions and pelagic biodiversity, spatial patterns in pelagic ciliate communities were studied at 18 stations from five habitats in the Amundsen Sea (western Antarctic) during austral summer from December 2010 to January 2011. Clear spatial patterns were observed in community structure, and significant differences were found among the various habitats. The species number, abundance, biomass and biodiversity indices (Shannon diversity H', Pielou's evenness J', and Margalef richness D) also showed clear spatial trends. Pelagic ciliate community structure accurately reflected environmental variability. Alone or in combination, several primary environmental variables were found to affect community spatial patterns in specific habitats. Shannon H' and Margalef D showed strong relationships with spatial changes in chlorophyll a and might be better predictors in future Antarctic studies. This study presents the first detailed description of spatial patterns in pelagic ciliate communities and their correlations with environmental variability in habitats in the Amundsen Sea during early austral summer. Our findings provide detailed and basic data on the composition, distribution, and variation of ciliate communities in the Amundsen Sea, and will help answer important questions about polar ecosystems. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Jiang, Yong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Yong; Yang, Eun Jin; Lee, SangHoon] Korea Polar Res Inst, Div Polar Ocean Environm, Inchon 406840, South Korea; [Kim, Sun Yong] Marine Biodivers Inst Korea, Chungcheongnam Do 325902, South Korea; [Kim, Young-Nam] Korea Marine Environm Management Corp, Seoul 135870, South Korea; [Yang, Eun Jin] Korea Polar Res Inst, Div Polar Ocean Environm, 213-3 Songdo Dong, Inchon 406840, South Korea								45							Oceanography	WOS:000343795800004		
J	Menta, C.; Conti, F. D.; Pinto, S.; Leoni, A.; Lozano-Fondon, C.								Monitoring soil restoration in an open-pit mine in northern Italy								APPLIED SOIL ECOLOGY				83				22	29		10.1016/j.apsoil.2013.07.013			NOV 2014	2014	Mining causes significant damage to the environment: the removal of top layers of soil causes loss of structure and functionality, with a subsequent reduction in biodiversity. Soil communities are important for soil formation, they contribute to the improvement of several characteristics of soils and they play key roles in many processes that enhance the success of restoration. Unfortunately, soil fauna are poorly monitored even though they represent a good tool for assessing soil quality. The "La Speranza" quarry in northern Italy was studied from the start of the restoration process in 2008 until 2012. Sixsites were selected and monitored annually. Microarthropods were extracted from three replicates of soil drawn from each site, identified to order level and then counted. Both the abundances of taxa and the soil biological indices applied (Shannon diversity index (H'), Pielou's evenness index (J), the Acari to Collembola ratio (A/C) and the QBS-ar index) revealed a good level of soil recovery over the years studied. Furthermore, the edaphic organisms that are generally associated with stable conditions in the soil (e.g. Symphyla, Protura, Chilopoda), appeared in the most recent of the years. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Menta, C.; Conti, F. D.; Pinto, S.; Leoni, A.] Univ Parma, Dept Life Sci, I-43121 Parma, Italy; [Lozano-Fondon, C.] Univ Extremadura, Ctr Univ Plasencia, Dept Vegetal Prod, Plasencia 10600, Spain; [Menta, C.] Univ Parma, Dept Life Sci, Via Farini 90, I-43121 Parma, Italy								25							Soil Science	WOS:000343318400004		
J	Wan, Nian-Feng; Gu, Xiao-Jun; Ji, Xiang-Yun; Jiang, Jie-Xian; Wu, Ji-Hua; Li, Bo								Ecological engineering of ground cover vegetation enhances the diversity and stability of peach orchard canopy arthropod communities								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				70				175	182		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2014.05.010			SEP 2014	2014	Ecological engineering of ground cover vegetation in agro-ecosystem may affect the diversity and stability of arthropod communities. Factors affecting the stability of arthropod community in turn influence the relationship between arthropod diversity and stability, which has been rarely investigated. We conducted a 2-year field-experiment in Shanghai and Jiangsu province in eastern China, examining the effects of the ecological engineering of ground cover plant Trifolium repens on the diversity and stability of canopy arthropod community in peach orchards. The results indicated that five diversity indices (abundance, species richness, Simpson's index, Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's evenness index) and four stability indices (N-n/N-p,S-n/S-p,(N-n + N-d)/N-p and (S-n, + S-d)/S-p) were all significantly higher but the coefficient of variation (d(s)/d(m)) was significantly lower in ground cover areas than control areas. The results of Pearson's correlations were significantly negative for abundance/richness and the above four stability indices both in ground cover areas and control ones in both sites; correlations between Pielou evenness index and the above four stability indices were all positive in control areas, while those in ground cover areas were not the same. Our study provides a more comprehensive understanding for arthropod community stability, suggesting that regulating harmful arthropods by beneficial and neutral arthropods was the basic implication of arthropod stability, and demonstrates that the ecological engineering of ground cover T. repens can enhance the diversity and stability of canopy arthropod communities but increased arthropod diversity will not always positively affect arthropod stability. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Wan, Nian-Feng; Gu, Xiao-Jun; Ji, Xiang-Yun; Jiang, Jie-Xian] Shanghai Acad Agr Sci, Ecoenvironm Protect Res Inst, Shanghai Key Lab Protected Hort Tecchnol, 1000 Jinqi Rd, Shanghai 201403, Peoples R China; [Wan, Nian-Feng; Wu, Ji-Hua; Li, Bo] Fudan Univ, Inst Biodvers Sci, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Coastal Ecosyst Res Stn Yangtze River Estuary,Min, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Jiang, Jie-Xian] Shanghai Acad Agr Sci, Ecoenvironm Protect Res Inst, Shanghai Key Lab Protected Hort Tecchnol, 1000 Jinqi Rd, Shanghai 201403, Peoples R China								23							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000340652100021		
J	Narangarvuu, Dashdondog; Hsu, Chorng-Bin; Shieh, Sen-Her; Wu, Fu-Chun; Yang, Ping-Shih								Macroinvertebrate assemblage patterns as indicators of water quality in the Xindian watershed, Taiwan								JOURNAL OF ASIA-PACIFIC ENTOMOLOGY				17	3			505	513		10.1016/j.aspen.2014.04.011			SEP 2014	2014	In the present study, we assessed the water quality along a stretch of the watershed with considerable economic importance at the Xindian in Taiwan, using macroinvertebrate assemblages, along with environmental variables. The research was carried out at the seven sampling sites (abbreviated as XD1-XD7) where human impacts varied in intensity from upstream tributaries to the downstream of the Xindian watershed from December 2010 to December 2011. All variables except for the hardness, pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, turbidity, phosphate, ammonia, and alkalinity were significantly different (P < 0.05) between the sampling sites. A total of seventy seven taxa belonging to forty five families within eight insect orders, along with three non-insect invertebrate taxa were recorded, with most representative orders being Ephemeroptera and Diptera. Mean values of the density, abundance of macroinvertebrates, Shannon index, Simpson index, and Pielou's evenness were much higher in the reference sites, XD2, XD3, and XD4 compared with impacted sites, XD5, XD6, and XD7. Most of the benthic metrics were greatest in the reference site compared to the impacted site. Only the composition measures, percentages of Chironomidae and Oligochaeta which are more tolerant to pollution were dominant in the impacted site, XD7. As the results of assessment by different benthic metrics, water quality of Xindian watershed became gradually worse from upstream to downstream. Generally, our results suggest that macroinvertebrate assemblages can be used for assessment of water quality. (C) 2014 Korean Society of Applied Entomology, Taiwan Entomological Society and Malaysian Plant Protection Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Narangarvuu, Dashdondog; Yang, Ping-Shih] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Bioresource & Agr, Dept Entomol, Taipei 10617, Taiwan; [Hsu, Chorng-Bin; Shieh, Sen-Her] Providence Univ, Coll Human & Social Sci, Dept Ecol, Taichung 43301, Taiwan; [Wu, Fu-Chun] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Bioenvironm Syst Engn, Taipei 10617, Taiwan; [Narangarvuu, Dashdondog] Natl Univ Mongolia, Sch Arts & Sci, Dept Biol, Ulaanbaatar 210646, Mongolia; [Yang, Ping-Shih] Natl Taiwan Univ, Coll Bioresource & Agr, Dept Entomol, Roosevelt Rd,Sec 4, Taipei 10617, Taiwan								17							Entomology	WOS:000340737700046		
J	Das, Apurba Kumar; Jha, Dilip Kumar; Devi, M. Prashanthi; Sahu, Biraja Kumar; Vinithkumar, N. V.; Kirubagaran, R.								Post tsunami mangrove evaluation in coastal vicinity of Andaman Islands, India								JOURNAL OF COASTAL CONSERVATION				18	3			249	255		10.1007/s11852-014-0312-5			JUN 2014	2014	The present study was carried out to determine the mangrove area water quality, mangrove diversity and density at Minnie Bay, Lalaji Bay and Aerial Bay (Andaman Islands, India). The physicochemical parameters such as salinity, nitrate, inorganic phosphate and total phosphorus varied significantly. Mangrove diversity was high at Minnie Bay while density at Aerial Bay. Rhizophora mucronata dominated at all three sites during the study period. Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H '= 2.261) and Pielou's evenness (J '= 0.8348) were high at Minnie Bay. The higher species density cover (5.679 Nos./m(2)) was recorded at Aerial Bay. Bray-Curtis cluster analysis showed 63.35 % similarity and formed two clusters. Though uplift and subsidence of coastal land due to the Mw 9.3 Sumatra earthquake in 2004 has affected the mangrove vegetation, its rejuvenation was observed in the newly formed inter-tidal areas due to changes in coastal geomorphology. The comparative study on physicochemical parameters, mangrove coverage and conservation are discussed in detail.		[Das, Apurba Kumar; Jha, Dilip Kumar; Sahu, Biraja Kumar; Vinithkumar, N. V.] Govt India, Minist Earth Sci, ANCOST, ESSO,Natl Inst Ocean Technol, Port Blair 744103, India; [Devi, M. Prashanthi] Bharathidasan Univ, Sch Environm Sci, Dept Environm Management, Thiruchirapalli, India; [Kirubagaran, R.] Govt India, Minist Earth Sci, Ocean Sci & Technol Isl, ESSO Natl Inst Ocean Technol, Madras 600100, Tamil Nadu, India; [Das, Apurba Kumar] Govt India, Minist Earth Sci, ANCOST, ESSO,Natl Inst Ocean Technol, Port Blair 744103, India								15							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000336739500009		
J	Acar, Cengiz; Kahveci, Hilal; Uzun, Seyran Palabas								The analysis and assessment of the vegetation on coastal revetments: the case of Trabzon (Turkey)								RENDICONTI LINCEI-SCIENZE FISICHE E NATURALI				25	2			141	153		10.1007/s12210-014-0301-5			JUN 2014	2014	Coastal habitats are very fragile and specialized environments susceptible to human activities and therefore vegetation ecology studies are needed to predict responses to landscape monitoring. There is little information about plant species invading human-made habitats, and no study has been carried out in Turkey on plant species distributed on coastal revetments. Therefore, the present study aimed to present the findings of a survey of plant species in relation to habitat factors to coastal revetments in the city of Trabzon (northeastern Turkey) and to identify and suggest species for future landscaping and environmental remediation works. The fieldwork was undertaken within the boundaries of Trabzon province. Data were collected along three habitat types regarding coastal revetments obtaining a total of 1,277 taxa collected from 46 different revetment areas including 150 sample plots. So, 169 plant species were identified, three of which were the most frequent with high presence of Conyza canadensis L. (44.67 %), Clematis vitalba L. (24.67 %) and Daucus carota (22.67 %). Using descriptive statistics of different diversity indices for plant species present in the three revetment types, significant variations were found in Shannon's diversity index (H'), species richness index (R') and Pielou's evenness index (J'). The results of the regression analysis of relationships between habitat factors and diversity of species indicated that distance from the road and distance from the sea totally affected the diversity and distribution of the species on coastal revetments. Consequently, the ecological roles of the species on coastal revetments are discussed in the conservation and management context. Therefore, when selecting plants to be used in the landscaping of coastal areas and deciding where they should be planted, habitat factors should be considered to have a significant effect on the alpha diversity of plants that can be suggested.		[Acar, Cengiz] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Landscape Architecture, TR-61080 Trabzon, Turkey; [Kahveci, Hilal] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Grad Sch Nat & Appl Sci, TR-61080 Trabzon, Turkey; [Uzun, Seyran Palabas] Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Forest Engn, TR-46000 Kahramanmaras, Turkey; [Acar, Cengiz] Karadeniz Tech Univ, Fac Forestry, Dept Landscape Architecture, TR-61080 Trabzon, Turkey								8							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000336394400002		
J	Yamamoto, Kedma Cristine; de Carvalho Freitas, Carlos Edwar; Zuanon, Jansen; Hurd, Lawrence Edward								Fish diversity and species composition in small-scale artificial reefs in Amazonian floodplain lakes: Refugia for rare species?								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				67				165	170		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2014.03.045			JUN 2014	2014	We designed a controlled experiment to evaluate the effects of introducing small-scale artificial reefs on fish species composition and diversity in four black water lakes located on islands in the Anavilhanas National Park in the Rio Negro, Amazonas, Brazil. We built eight 37.5 m(3) artificial reefs consisting of frames enclosing wooden branches to provide habitat complexity, and placed two of them in each lake approximately 60 m from the margins, one situated close to a forest that abuts the lake directly, and one close to a sand/clay beach between the edge of the lake and the forest. Controls consisted of open water areas 100 m from the reefs and the same distance from the lake margins as the reefs. We collected fish with gill nets in 2009 and 2010 in each of these lakes, during the four main phases of the hydrologic cycle (flooding, high water, receding, and low water). Rarefaction curves indicated that we had sampled sufficiently to represent the species diversity at these sites. ANOSIM indicated no difference the two types of lake margin, and only season of the hydrologic cycle was a statistically significant response variable. Shannon's diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness (J') did not allow us to reject the null hypothesis that reefs do not enhance overall diversity, but we did reject this hypothesis on the basis of substantial differences in community composition: of the 107 species collected, 69 were found at both reefs and control sites, but 26 were only found at reefs and 12 only at control sites. The unique species at reef sites were mainly those of low abundance, and which therefore had relatively little effect on the composite diversity indices. These were mainly species that do not migrate out of the lake as part of the life cycle and use the flooded forest as refuge from predators, so the seasonal unavailability of the flooded forest habitat during the dry hydrologic phase probably keeps their populations at low density. Artificial reefs may therefore function to buffer rare and non-migratory species from local extinction in times of drought, and should be considered in efforts to preserve aquatic biodiversity. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Yamamoto, Kedma Cristine; de Carvalho Freitas, Carlos Edwar] Univ Fed Amazonas UFAM, FAC, BR-69077000 Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Zuanon, Jansen] INPA, BR-69080971 Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Hurd, Lawrence Edward] Washington & Lee Univ, Dept Biol, Lexington, VA 24450 USA; [Hurd, Lawrence Edward] Washington & Lee Univ, Environm Studies Program, Lexington, VA 24450 USA; [Yamamoto, Kedma Cristine] Univ Fed Amazonas UFAM, FAC, Av Gen Rodrigo Otavio Ramos Jordao 3000, BR-69077000 Manaus, AM, Brazil								15							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000336449000020		
J	Feroz, S. M.; Alam, Md Rabiul; Das, Prokash; Al Mamun, Abdullah								Community ecology and spatial distribution of trees in a tropical wet evergreen forest in Kaptai national park in Chittagong Hill Tracts, Bangladesh								JOURNAL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH				25	2			311	318		10.1007/s11676-013-0423-0			JUN 2014	2014	We investigated the floristic composition, woody species diversity and spatial distribution of trees in a tropical wet evergreen forest in Kaptai national park in Chittagong Hill Tracks, Bangladesh. We recorded 25 families, 37 genera, 40 species and 1771 woody individuals in a 0.09 ha plot. Euphorbiaceae and Moraceae were the most species-rich families, and Castanopsis, Ficus and Terminalia were the most species-rich genera. Bursera serrate Wall. ex Colebr. was the dominant species in terms of highest importance value (13%). Trema orientalis (L.) B1 was typically a light demanding species as it appeared in the top canopy with only one individual having the seventh highest IV, but had no regeneration. The expected maximum number of species (S-max) was 140, indicating that many species may invade the forest as the S-max is greater than the recorded total number of species. The nature of the disappearance and appearance of species in the present forest reflects instability of floristic composition. The values of Shannon's index H' and Pielou's index J' (evenness) were 3.36 bit and 0.63, respectively. These values show moderately high species diversity as compared to other subtropical forests in the tropics. In addition, a sample area of 200 m(2) in this forest would be sufficient for measuring the diversity indices H' and J', whereas the trend of may indicate the rate of equality of individuals among the different species decreased with increasing area. The distribution pattern for the total stand was completely random. However, the dominant species showed aggregate distribution for small areas, but random distribution for large areas. The spatial association between species showed that the strongest positive interspecific association occurred between Streblus asper Lour. and Castanea indica Roxb. (omega = 0.51). As a whole, most species were weakly associated with each other, of which 58% species associations were completely negative. The result of cluster analysis showed that species pairs were spatially independent at all or most small clusters; stands of species from all clusters are mosaics of complete habitat and pioneer habitat. All patches in this forest community have similar habitat and regeneration niches, which could be a phenomenon for a young growth forest. Thus, the existence of habitat and regeneration niches may be an important factor in the maintenance of diversity in this forest.		[Feroz, S. M.; Alam, Md Rabiul; Das, Prokash; Al Mamun, Abdullah] Khulna Univ, Forestry & Wood Technol Discipline, Khulna 9208, Bangladesh; [Feroz, S. M.] Khulna Univ, Forestry & Wood Technol Discipline, Khulna 9208, Bangladesh								8							Forestry	WOS:000335279100009		
J	McRobb, Evan; Kaestli, Mirjam; Price, Erin P.; Sarovich, Derek S.; Mayo, Mark; Warner, Jeffrey; Spratt, Brian G.; Currie, Bart J.								Distribution of <i>Burkholderia pseudomallei</i> in Northern Australia, a Land of Diversity								APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY				80	11			3463	3468		10.1128/AEM.00128-14			JUN 2014	2014	Burkholderia pseudomallei is a Gram-negative soil bacillus that is the etiological agent of melioidosis and a biothreat agent. Little is known about the biogeography of this bacterium in Australia, despite its hyperendemicity in the northern region of this continent. The population structure of 953 Australian B. pseudomallei strains representing 779 and 174 isolates of clinical and environmental origins, respectively, was analyzed using multilocus sequence typing (MLST). Bayesian population structure and network SplitsTree analyses were performed on concatenated MLST loci, and sequence type (ST) diversity and evenness were examined using Simpson's and Pielou's indices and a multivariate dissimilarity matrix. Bayesian analysis found two B. pseudomallei populations in Australia that were geographically distinct; isolates from the Northern Territory were grouped mainly into the first population, whereas the majority of isolates from Queensland were grouped in a second population. Differences in ST evenness were observed between sampling areas, confirming that B. pseudomallei is widespread and established across northern Australia, with a large number of fragmented habitats. ST analysis showed that B. pseudomallei populations diversified as the sampling area increased. This observation was in contrast to smaller sampling areas where a few STs predominated, suggesting that B. pseudomallei populations are ecologically established and not frequently dispersed. Interestingly, there was no identifiable ST bias between clinical and environmental isolates, suggesting the potential for all culturable B. pseudomallei isolates to cause disease. Our findings have important implications for understanding the ecology of B. pseudomallei in Australia and for potential source attribution of this bacterium in the event of unexpected cases of melioidosis.		[McRobb, Evan; Kaestli, Mirjam; Price, Erin P.; Sarovich, Derek S.; Mayo, Mark; Currie, Bart J.] Menzies Sch Hlth Res, Global & Trop Hlth Div, Casuarina, NT, Australia; [Currie, Bart J.] Royal Darwin Hosp, Northern Terr Med Program, Dept Infect Dis, Casuarina, NT, Australia; [Warner, Jeffrey] James Cook Univ, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia; [Spratt, Brian G.] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, London, England; [Currie, Bart J.] Menzies Sch Hlth Res, Global & Trop Hlth Div, Casuarina, NT, Australia								36							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Microbiology	WOS:000336035200021		
J	Kieltyk, Piotr								Distribution pattern of the invasive alien plant <i>Bunias orientalis</i> in Row Podtatrzanski trench, north of the Tatra Mts, Poland								BIOLOGIA				69	3			323	331		10.2478/s11756-013-0319-7			MAR 2014	2014	Bunias orientalis is an alien species that has spread greatly in recent decades in Central Europe. This coloniser is particularly well (pre)adapted to anthropogenic disturbances and human-mediated dispersal, allowing it to spread mainly along roads and railways. Here, its distribution and population structure is investigated for the sub-montane region located in the northern foothills of the Tatra Mts. Based on 70 phytosociological samples of invading vegetation, the relationships between B. orientalis cover and species diversity, together with the composition of vegetation, were analysed using regression analysis. Comparison of the current distribution of B. orientalis within the investigated area with published records indicates that the expansion rate of this alien species is not particularly high, despite its increased frequency in anthropogenic habitats and meadows. Meadows invaded by this species revealed that increased B. orientalis cover was accompanied by a significant reduction in the values of the Inverse Simpson diversity index and Pielou's measure of evenness. Reduced diversity was caused by considerable decrease in cover by species of the Molinio-Arrhenatheretea class. However, for anthropogenic habitats, no statistically significant relationships were found to occur between the abundance of B. orientalis, species diversity and vegetation composition.		Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland; [Kieltyk, Piotr] Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski Univ Warsaw, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Woycickiego Str 1-3, PL-01938 Warsaw, Poland								5							Biology	WOS:000330712400007		
J	Feld, Christian K.; de Bello, Francesco; Doledec, Sylvain								Biodiversity of traits and species both show weak responses to hydromorphological alteration in lowland river macroinvertebrates								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				59	2			233	248		10.1111/fwb.12260			FEB 2014	2014	1. Lotic ecosystems worldwide are being increasingly modified hydromorphologically, for example, by damming, fragmentation, flow regulation and channel modification. Serious threats to riverine biodiversity are suspected, yet available field data are few and rarely address the various taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic components of biodiversity. 2. We examined benthic macroinvertebrate diversity along a gradient of hydromorphological alteration across 65 lowland river sites in the Netherlands, Germany and Poland. We calculated eight metrics describing taxonomic diversity (richness, rarefied richness, Shannon's and Simpson's diversity, Pielou's evenness), functional diversity (mean trait diversity) and phylogenetic diversity (mean taxonomic distinctness and its variance). 3. Threshold Indicator Taxa ANalysis (TITAN) and Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) showed detailed changes in taxonomic and trait composition, respectively, with increasing hydromorphological alteration. TITAN revealed a gradual turnover under increasing impact in which taxon losses were almost balanced by gains. NMS illustrated a high degree of concordance in the traits possessed by the taxa lost and gained at the gradient's end points. 4. Although a biologically meaningful hydromorphological gradient was evident, the biodiversity response was modest (Spearman's <|0.32| for all metrics). Pielou's evenness and mean taxonomic distinctness actually increased at impaired sites. 5. Our results suggest that taxonomic and trait replacement with hydromorphological alteration is not followed by changes in whole-community diversity. This implies some redundancy in these systems, with ecologically similar species replacing those lost through environmental change. 6. The results highlight how whole-community-based diversity, although frequently calculated and interpreted for decades in ecology and conservation biology, is not the all-purpose concept to detect and assess the various facets of biodiversity loss. Therefore, we suggest that concerted effort is needed to develop and test novel indicators of biodiversity, capable of detecting biodiversity loss, or other changes, in response to the main environmental stressors of lotic ecosystems.		[Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Fac Biol, Dept Aquat Ecol, D-45141 Essen, Germany; [Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Ctr Water & Environm Res ZWU, D-45141 Essen, Germany; [de Bello, Francesco] Acad Sci Czech Republ, Inst Bot, Trebon, Czech Republic; [de Bello, Francesco] Univ South Bohemia, Dept Bot, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [de Bello, Francesco] Univ South Bohemia, Fac Sci, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Doledec, Sylvain] Univ Lyon 1, UMR 5023, Lab Ecol Hydrosyst Nat & Anthropises, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Fac Biol, Dept Aquat Ecol, Univ Str 5, D-45141 Essen, Germany								78							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000329370800003		
J	Galli, L.; Capurro, M.; Menta, C.; Rellini, I.								Is the QBS-ar index a good tool to detect the soil quality in Mediterranean areas? A cork tree <i>Quercus suber</i> L. (Fagaceae) wood as a case of study								ITALIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				81	1			126	135		10.1080/11250003.2013.875601			JAN 2 2014	2014	Cork oak (Quercus suber L., 1753) is a Mediterranean evergreen tree species with a thick and characteristic bark covering the trunk and branches. Despite the fact that cork oak is distributed over about 1.7 million hectares in the western Mediterranean Basin, information about soil biota in this particular habitat at present is scanty. This study was carried out in a cork tree wood in Bergeggi (Liguria, NW Italy), characterized by a Pluvioseasonal Oceanic Mediterranean bioclimate. The profile, texture, pH, total carbonate content, total organic carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) contents, soluble phosphorus (P) and cation exchange capacity were measured in order to characterize the soil. Soil biological quality was evaluated by studying microarthropod communities. Each month, from February 2007 to January 2008, 10 soil samples measuring 10x10x10cm were collected from the wood being studied and arthropods were extracted using Berlese-Tullgren funnels. The biological quality of soil based on arthropods (QBS-ar) index, taxa abundance, Shannon diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J) were applied to assess soil biological quality in the cork oak being studied. A total of 29 taxonomic groups were identified. Some important groups, such as Pseudoscorpionida, Palpigradi, Miriapoda and Protura were detected every month, but only a few groups showed a clear abundance distribution trend throughout the year and globally it was impossible to define general trends. The results suggested that the condition of the soil was good, as generally observed in natural environments not subjected to significant impacts. It was also possible to demonstrate that the Mediterranean climate causes strong seasonal fluctuations in soil biota, resulting in corresponding differences in the QBS-ar index values. Therefore, the QBS-ar index could be considered to be a valid candidate for the biomonitoring of soil biodiversity in natural and anthropic soils, but in Mediterranean climates comparisons of different areas must be performed analyzing samples collected during the same period.		[Galli, L.; Capurro, M.; Rellini, I.] Univ Genoa, Dept Earth Environm & Life Sci DISTAV, I-16132 Genoa, Italy; [Menta, C.] Univ Parma, Dept Biosci, I-43100 Parma, Italy; [Galli, L.] Univ Genoa, Dept Earth Environm & Life Sci DISTAV, Corso Europa 26, I-16132 Genoa, Italy								23							Zoology	WOS:000334827200013		
J	Szlauer-Lukaszewska, Agnieszka								The dynamics of seasonal ostracod density in groyne fields of the Oder River (Poland)								JOURNAL OF LIMNOLOGY				73	2			298	311		10.4081/jlimnol.2014.865			2014	2014	The study investigated seasonal dynamics of the ostracod population in the Oder River (Poland), in the area of groyne fields. Groyne fields were lenitic areas in that river system, providing favourable conditions for ostracod development. The main aims of the study were to find information on seasonal differences in ostracod occurrence, determine models of density dynamics and become acquainted with the effect of environmental factors on seasonal changes of ostracod assemblages. Samples were collected from 15 research stations in the littoral. The respective zones of the groyne fields abounded in various microhabitats. Average density, frequency coefficient, dominance, Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H), and Pielou's evenness index (J) were calculated for Ostracoda assemblages in order to point out differences between seasons. In total, 237 samples were collected; forty-seven species were identified, and the average density was 658 indiv. was studied during the vegetation season. The highest average density of the ostracods was discovered in spring (1160 indiv. m(-2)) with maximum of 9472 indiv. m(-2).); in the subsequent seasons it dropped by about half. The density dynamics of particular Ostracoda species was often different from their overall density. Significant differences between seasons were discovered with regard to the number of taxa, density and evenness index. The species that dominated throughout the year included Limnocythere inopinata and Physocypria kraepelini. Furthermore, juvenile Candoninae dominated in spring, Cypridopsis vidua dominated in summer, and Candona neglecta, C. vidua and juvenile Pseudocandona dominated in autumn. It turned out that the dynamics of occurrence of certain species observed in the present study contradicted data from literature related to the following species: Darwinula stevensoni, Cypria ophtalmica, Physocypria kraepelini, Limnocythere inopinata. All obtained models of density dynamics pointed out maximum density in spring, indicating that during that period the conditions in the river were optimal for ostracod development, as confirmed by the results of studying environmental factors. Ecological condition of the Oder was also good in the other seasons. Temperature, visibility, and dissolved oxygen content were among factors which most strongly affected ostracod assemblages. Availability of organic matter could result in decreasing their density.		Univ Szczecin, Dept Invertebrate Zool & Limnol, PL-71415 Szczecin, Poland; [Szlauer-Lukaszewska, Agnieszka] Univ Szczecin, Dept Invertebrate Zool & Limnol, Ul Waska 13, PL-71415 Szczecin, Poland								6							Limnology	WOS:000342807000009		
J	Kemp, M.; de Kock, K. N.; Wepener, V.; Roets, W.; Quinn, L.; Wolmarans, C. T.								Influence of selected abiotic factors on aquatic macroinvertebrate assemblages in the Olifants River catchment, Mpumalanga, South Africa								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF AQUATIC SCIENCE				39	2			141	149		10.2989/16085914.2014.923371			2014	2014	Biodiversity is frequently seen as an indicator of ecological health. Therefore a survey of the macroinvertebrates of the Olifants River, one of the most polluted rivers in South Africa, was conducted in 2010-2011. Four surveys were conducted at a total of seven sampling sites in four ecoregions, Highveld-Upper, Highveld-Lower, Lowveld-Lower and Eastern Escarpment mountain range, using sweepnets to sample vegetation and substratum. Conductivity, pH and temperature were measured in situ. Macroinvertebrates were identified to family level and counted. Ninety-four taxa were collected, of which 12 were each represented by more than 1% of the total number specimens collected. The influence of abiotic factors on biodiversity was assessed through canonical correspondence analysis, species richness, Shannon-Wiener index and Pielou's evenness index. Ecoregion and associated temperatures played dominant roles in the distribution of families. Although the level of organic enrichment at some sites could benefit families tolerant to, or with a preference for, such conditions, this proved insufficient to exclude the less-tolerant families from those sites.		[Kemp, M.; de Kock, K. N.; Wepener, V.; Roets, W.; Quinn, L.; Wolmarans, C. T.] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management, Potchefstroom, South Africa; [Roets, W.] Dept Water Affairs, Pretoria, South Africa; [Quinn, L.] Natl Metrol Inst South Africa, Lynnwood Ridge, South Africa; [Kemp, M.] North West Univ, Unit Environm Sci & Management, Potchefstroom, South Africa								3							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000338829000002		
J	Mondal, Tamal; Raghunathan, C.; Venkataraman, K.								Bleaching: The Driving Force of Scleractinian New Recruitment at Little Andaman Island, Andaman and Nicobar Islands								PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES INDIA SECTION B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				83	4			585	592		10.1007/s40011-013-0168-8			DEC 2013	2013	Peak bleaching of corals was seen in 2010 in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The results were observed as adverse impacts on the reef environment. Little Andaman Island is the southern-most part of Andaman group of Islands. The continental shelf of this island showed a limited number of scleractinian corals as new recruitment at the destroyed reef areas after the 2004 tsunami. Only 34 species of hermatypic corals were reported in 2009. Consecutive underwater survey and experimental outcome reveals that 124 species of scleractinian corals were identified from the same areas after the mass bleaching effect. The presence of species composition of the study area is near about 4 times higher than the study which was made on newly recruited corals after tsunami. Bleaching was the only giant event which occurred in between 2009 and 2012, considered as the prime regulator for the new recruitment of scleractinians. The Shannon-Weaver's species diversity index of the study area ranges from 5.09 to 6.00, Simpson's species density index varies from 0.94 to 0.97 whereas the Pielou's evenness index shows the results in between 0.93 and 0.98. The present paper depicts the species composition, diversity, density and evenness at post bleaching state to signify the constructive role of bleaching towards the settlement of new scleractinian coral life on the preceding places.		[Mondal, Tamal; Raghunathan, C.] Zool Survey India, Andaman & Nicobar Reg Ctr, Natl Coral Reef Res Inst, Port Blair 744102, Andaman & Nicob, India; [Venkataraman, K.] Zool Survey India, Kolkata 700053, India; [Mondal, Tamal] Zool Survey India, Andaman & Nicobar Reg Ctr, Natl Coral Reef Res Inst, Port Blair 744102, Andaman & Nicob, India								1							Biology	WOS:000324499200013		
J	Liu, YanYan; Gong, YanMing; Wang, Xin; Hu, YuKun								Volume fractal dimension of soil particles and relationships with soil physical-chemical properties and plant species diversity in an alpine grassland under different disturbance degrees								JOURNAL OF ARID LAND				5	4			480	487		10.1007/s40333-013-0184-9			DEC 2013	2013	Fractal geometry is an important method in soil science, and many studies have used fractal theory to examine soil properties and the relationships with other eco-environmental factors. However, there have been few studies examining soil particle volume fractal dimension in alpine grasslands. To study the volume fractal dimension of soil particles (D) and its relationships with soil salt, soil nutrient and plant species diversity, we conducted an experiment on an alpine grassland under different disturbance degrees: non-disturbance (N-0), light disturbance (L), moderate disturbance (M) and heavy disturbance (H). The results showed that (1) Ds varied from 2.573 to 2.635 among the different disturbance degrees and increased with increasing degrees of disturbance. (2) Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Pielou's evenness index and Margalef richness index reached their highest values at the M degree, indicating that moderate disturbance is beneficial to the increase of plant species diversity. (3) In the L and M degrees, there was a significant positive correlation between D and clay content and a significant negative correlation between D and soil organic matter (SOM). In the H degree, D was significantly and positively correlated with total salt (TS). The results suggested that to a certain extent, D can be used to characterize the uniformity of soil texture in addition to soil fertility characteristics. (4) For the L degree, there was a significant negative correlation between D and the Shannon-Wiener diversity index; while for the M degree, there was a significant negative correlation between D and Pielou's evenness index.		[Liu, YanYan; Gong, YanMing; Hu, YuKun] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, Key Lab Biogeog & Bioresource Arid Land, Urumqi 830011, Peoples R China; [Wang, Xin] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Branch, Urumqi 830011, Peoples R China; [Hu, YuKun] Chinese Acad Sci, Xinjiang Inst Ecol & Geog, Key Lab Biogeog & Bioresource Arid Land, Urumqi 830011, Peoples R China								20							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000321558700007		
J	Zakaria, M.; Rajpar, M. N.								Density and Diversity of Water Birds and Terrestrial Birds in Man-made Marsh, Malaysia								SAINS MALAYSIANA				42	10			1483	1492					OCT 2013	2013	Many bird species are highly dependent on natural marsh habitat. Unfortunately this habitat is rapidly converted to other land uses. Therefore artificial or man-made marsh habitat may become an important alternative habitat for marsh dependent bird species. The main objective of this study was to determine the density and diversity of water and terrestrial birds at man-made marsh habitat at Putrajaya using distance sampling point count technique. A total of 20010 bird individuals of 102 species representing 31.05% water birds and 68.95% terrestrial birds were detected from March 2009 to June 2010. Density analysis showed that bird density is 0.64 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and range from 0.60 -0.68 birds ha(-1) at 95.0% confidence interval. It was found that terrestrial birds had a higher density 0.74 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) than water birds 0.54 + 0.09 birds ha(-1). For water bird species, the highest density was Black-crowned Nightheron; 2.92 + 1.80 birds ha(-1) followed by Purple Heron; 1.55 + 0.93 birds ha(-1) and Grey Heron; 1.05 + 0.13 birds ha(-1). The lowest density was recorded in Pintail Snipe; 0.08 + 0.03 birds ha(-1), Chinese Egret; 0.08 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and Great Egret; 0.07 + 0.08 birds ha(-1), respectively. In terrestrial birds, the highest bird density was observed in Rock Pigeon 3.91 + 0.97 birds ha(-1), followed by Eurasian Tree Sparrow; 3.72 + 1.03 birds ha(-1), House Crow; 3.69 + 0.33 birds ha(-1) and Philippine Glossy Starling; 3.38 + 0.53 birds ha(-1). The lowest bird density was recorded in Brown-capped Woodpecker; 0.07 + 0.02 birds ha(-1) and Lesser Coucal; 0.09 + 0.03 birds ha(-1). The result also shows that terrestrial birds had higher species diversity i.e. Shannon-Wiener index (N1 = 3.10), species richness i.e. Margalef's index (R1= 8.23) and species evenness i. e. Pielou's J index (E = 0.71) as compared with water birds (N1 = 2.04; R1= 8.23 and E = 0.65). This study indicates that man-made marsh is a suitable habitat for diverse avian species and thus should be protected in order to enhance the population of avian species.		[Zakaria, M.; Rajpar, M. N.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia; [Zakaria, M.] Univ Putra Malaysia, Fac Forestry, Upm Serdang 43400, Selangor, Malaysia								9							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000324689100017		
J	Baharsingh, S. K.; Sahu, Biraja Ku.; Srichandan, S.; Sahu, K. C.; Lotliker, Aneesh. A.; Kumar, T. Srinivasa								Seasonal variation of phytoplankton community in Gopalpur Creek: a tropical tidal backwater ecosystem, East Coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF GEO-MARINE SCIENCES				42	5			622	634					SEP 2013	2013	Present study consists of phytoplankton community of Gopalpur creek in pre-monsoon, monsoon and post-monsoon season There was a Significant seasonal variation in water temperature (p < 0.01). Salinity and pH varied significantly (p < 0.05) among the stations. Chlorophyll a and phytoplankton density found to vary significantly (p < 0.01) among seasons rather than the stations. A total of 99 phytoplankton species were identified. Diatoms formed 77, dinoflagellates 14, green algae five, blue green algae two and cocolithophore one species. Phytoplankton species composition was found dissimilar in the three seasons. In pre-monsoon Noctiluca scintillans, Thalassiothrix longissima, Odontella sinensis, Thalassionema nitzschioides, Coscinodiscus gigas, Rhizosolenia alata formed the dominant species. In monsoon, Rhizosolenia alata, Pleurosigma elongatum, Melosira sulcata, Amphora coastatum, Rhizosolenia setigera dominated the phytoplankton population. In post-monsoon Odontella sinensis, Rhizosolenia setigera, Coscinodiscus gigas, Thalassiothrix longissima, Noctiluca scintillans, Oscillatoria spp. dominated. Univariate diversity indices showed maximum diversity during post-monsoon. Pielou's evenness (J') and Simpson's dominance have shown little variation among the seasons.		[Baharsingh, S. K.; Srichandan, S.; Sahu, K. C.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Orissa, India; [Sahu, Biraja Ku.] Natl Inst Ocean Technol, ANCOST, Port Blair, A&N Islands, India; [Lotliker, Aneesh. A.; Kumar, T. Srinivasa] INCOIS, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India; [Sahu, K. C.] Berhampur Univ, Dept Marine Sci, Berhampur 760007, Orissa, India								4							Oceanography	WOS:000329600100013		
J	Azwandi, A.; Keterina, Nina H.; Owen, L. C.; Nurizzati, M. D.; Omar, B.								Adult carrion arthropod community in a tropical rainforest of Malaysia: Analysis on three common forensic entomology animal models								TROPICAL BIOMEDICINE				30	3			481	494					SEP 2013	2013	Decomposing carrion provides a temporary microhabitat and food source for a distinct community of organisms. Arthropods constitute a major part of this community and can be utilized to estimate the postmortem interval (PMI) of cadavers during criminal investigations. However, in Malaysia, knowledge of carrion arthropod assemblages and their succession is superficial. Therefore, a study on three types of forensic entomology animal model was conducted from 27 September 2010 to 28 October 2010 in a tropical rainforest at National University of Malaysia, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia. Over one month collections of arthropods were made on nine animal carcasses: three laboratory rats (Rattus norvegicus, mean weight: 0.508 +/- 0.027kg), three rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus, mean weight: 2.538 +/- 0.109kg) and three long tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis, mean weight: 5.750 +/- 0.551kg). A total of 31 433 arthropods belonging to eight orders and twenty-eight families were collected from all carcasses. Among 2 924 of adults flies collected, approximately 19% were calliphorids with Chrysomya megacephala (Fabricius, 1794) being the most abundant. Arthropod taxon richness was lower on rat carcasses compared to that of rabbit and monkey carcasses, and this was more apparent during the first week of decomposition. However, there were no significant differences in Shannon-Weiner index (H'), Simpson dominance index (C) and Pielou's Evenness index (J) between different animal model. The arthropod assemblages associated to animal model were different significantly (p<0.05) while decomposition stage was a significant factor influencing insect assemblages (p<0.05). Analysis on the arthropods succession indicated that some taxa have a clear visitation period while the others, particularly Coleoptera, did not show a clear successional pattern thus require futher insect succession study. Although human bodies were not possible for the succession study, most of the arthropods collected are necrophagous, and will also possibly colonize human cadaver, and potentially be useful in assisting in estimates of PMI in future forensic cases in Malaysia.		[Azwandi, A.; Keterina, Nina H.; Owen, L. C.; Nurizzati, M. D.; Omar, B.] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Diagnost & Appl Hlth Sci, Program Biomed Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50300, Malaysia; [Azwandi, A.] Natl Univ Malaysia, Fac Hlth Sci, Sch Diagnost & Appl Hlth Sci, Program Biomed Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50300, Malaysia								15							Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000328089400012		
J	Quan Weimin; Zheng Lin; Li Beijun; An Chuanguang								Habitat values for artificial oyster (<i>Crassostrea ariakensis</i>) reefs compared with natural shallow-water habitats in Changjiang River estuary								CHINESE JOURNAL OF OCEANOLOGY AND LIMNOLOGY				31	5			957	969		10.1007/s00343-013-2319-4			SEP 2013	2013	Oyster reefs have an equivalent, complex 3-dimensional structure to vegetated habitats and may provide similar functions in estuarine environments. Nevertheless, few studies have compared oyster reefs with adjacent natural shallow-water habitats. Here the resident benthic macroinvertebrate communities in an artificial oyster (Crassostrea ariakensis) reef and in adjacent natural estuarine shallow-water habitats (salt marsh, intertidal mudflat, and subtidal soft bottom) in the Changjiang (Yangtze) River estuary were described. The mean total densities and biomass, Margalef's species richness, Pielou's evenness and Shannon-Weaver biodiversity indices of the resident benthic macroinvertebrate communities differed significantly among the habitats. Significantly higher densities and biomass of benthic macroinvertebrates occurred in the oyster reef compared with the other three habitats. Ordination plots showed a clear separation in benthic macroinvertebrate communities among the four habitat types. The results demonstrated that the artificial oyster reef supported distinct and unique benthic communities, playing an important role in the complex estuarine habitat by supplying prey resources and contributing to biodiversity. In addition, the results suggested that the oyster reef had been restored successfully.		[Quan Weimin] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, East China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab East China Sea & Marine Fishery Resources, Shanghai 200090, Peoples R China; [Zheng Lin] Adm Bur Jiuduansha Wetland Nat Reserve, Shanghai 200129, Peoples R China; [Li Beijun] Shanghai Environm Monitoring Ctr, Shanghai 200030, Peoples R China; [An Chuanguang] Shanghai Fisheries Res Inst, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Quan Weimin] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, East China Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab East China Sea & Marine Fishery Resources, Shanghai 200090, Peoples R China								9							Limnology; Oceanography	WOS:000324111300003		
J	Das, Surajit; Lyla, P. S.; Khan, S. Ajmal								The distribution and diversity of culturable aerobic heterotrophic benthic bacteria in the continental slope of the Bay of Bengal: Linked abiotic factors, including a tsunami								RUSSIAN JOURNAL OF MARINE BIOLOGY				39	3			169	181		10.1134/S106307401303005X			MAY 2013	2013	The culturable aerobic heterotrophic benthic bacterial population and community structure in relation to the physico-chemical parameters in the continental slope of the Bay of Bengal was studied. In addition, diversity indices were calculated and pretsunami (in 2004) and post-tsunami (in 2005) diversity values were compared. Sediment samples were collected from two cruises in the depth zone of 214-1000 m (10A degrees 36' N-20A degrees 01' N and 79A degrees 59' E-87A degrees 30' E). The vertical distribution of the total heterotrophic bacterial population during both cruises was higher in the top section (0-3 cm) of the sediment. The average total heterotrophic bacterial population was in the range of 0.42-37.38 x 10(4) CFU/g to 1.66-19.73 x 10(4) CFU/g dry sediment weight during the two cruises, respectively. The limiting physico-chemical factors were sediment pH, sediment temperature, TOC, porosity, and clay as revealed from multiple regression (r = 0.75) and BIOENV (Partial Correlation rho omega = 0.447) analyses. The shannon-Wiener index (H' log e), Simpson index (D), Margalef index (d) and Pielou's evenness index (J') were found to be higher in the 1000 m depth stations. Cluster analysis showed that the 500 m depth stations clustered either with the 200 m or with the 1000 m stations. The 200 m depth stations never formed a cluster with the 1000 m stations. Pre-tsunami diversity indices at two depth ranges (200 m and 1000 m) were higher than those of the post-tsunami indices, which was quite evident from the cluster analysis as well. This study confirms the effect of the tsunami surge in the sediments of the continental slope of the Bay of Bengal in the marine ecosystem, which is also attributed to the temporal variation of the heterotrophic bacterial population and diversity.		[Das, Surajit; Lyla, P. S.; Khan, S. Ajmal] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Das, Surajit] Natl Inst Technol, Dept Life Sci, Rourkela 769008, Odisha, India; [Das, Surajit] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								1							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000321570600002		
J	Alalykina, Inna								Preliminary data on the composition and distribution of polychaetes in the deep-water areas of the north-western part of the Sea of Japan								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				86-87				164	171		10.1016/j.dsr2.2012.07.038			FEB-MAR 2013	2013	During the SoJaBio expedition, the deep sea fauna of the north-western Sea of Japan was sampled in August-September 2010. From this study, 11 epibenthic sledge stations are analyzed, with a focus on species composition, diversity and distribution patterns of polychaetes. A total of 92 polychaete taxa belonging to 70 genera and 28 families and 3 indeterminate species were found. Twelve species and eight genera have not been reported from the Sea of Japan before, but were registered from other deep-sea basins. Calculation of diversity (Shannon-Wiener Index, Pielou's Evenness) showed that the upper bathyal of the Sea of Japan is an area of higher polychaete diversity than the abyssal plain. The increased richness and diversity here could possibly be explained by a zoogeographic overlapping with the shallower species' assemblages of the shelf. At a higher taxonomic level the polychaete fauna of the deep Sea of Japan does not seem to differ from that of other deep-sea regions world-wide. In depths below 2000 m about 30% polychaete species have wide distributional ranges. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Alalykina, Inna] FEB RAS, AV Zhirmunsky Inst Marine Biol, Vladivostok 690059, Russia; [Alalykina, Inna] Far Eastern Fed Univ, Sch Nat Sci, Vladivostok 690091, Russia; [Alalykina, Inna] FEB RAS, AV Zhirmunsky Inst Marine Biol, Palchevskogo 17, Vladivostok 690059, Russia								11							Oceanography	WOS:000316834600017		
J	Rosa, B. F. J. V.; Dias-Silva, M. V. D.; Alves, R. G.								Composition and Structure of the Chironomidae (Insecta: Diptera) Community Associated with Bryophytes in a First-Order Stream in the Atlantic Forest, Brazil								NEOTROPICAL ENTOMOLOGY				42	1			15	21		10.1007/s13744-012-0086-0			FEB 2013	2013	This study describes the structure of the Chironomidae community associated with bryophytes in a first-order stream located in a biological reserve of the Atlantic Forest, during two seasons. Samples of bryophytes adhered to rocks along a 100-m stretch of the stream were removed with a metal blade, and 200-mL pots were filled with the samples. The numerical density (individuals per gram of dry weight), Shannon's diversity index, Pielou's evenness index, the dominance index (DI), and estimated richness were calculated for each collection period (dry and rainy). Linear regression analysis was employed to test the existence of a correlation between rainfall and the individual's density and richness. The high numerical density and richness of Chironomidae taxa observed are probably related to the peculiar conditions of the bryophyte habitat. The retention of larvae during periods of higher rainfall contributed to the high density and richness of Chironomidae larvae. The rarefaction analysis showed higher richness in the rainy season related to the greater retention of food particles. The data from this study show that bryophytes provide stable habitats for the colonization by and refuge of Chironomidae larvae, mainly under conductions of faster water flow and higher precipitation.		[Rosa, B. F. J. V.; Dias-Silva, M. V. D.; Alves, R. G.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Inst Ciencias Biol, Lab Invertebrados Benton, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Rosa, B. F. J. V.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Inst Ciencias Biol, Lab Invertebrados Benton, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil								7							Entomology	WOS:000314275200002		
J	Yang, Yanyan; Lv, Zhenbo; Li, Fan; Wang, Zhongquan; Sun, Chunxiao; Xu, Qiang								Species composition and distribution of ichthyoplankton in the Huanghe River estuary								HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING, 2012 SREE CONFERENCE								343	349					2013	2013	To gain a better understanding the inference of the Water and Sediment Discharge Regulation (WSDR) project on the species composition and distribution of ichthyoplankton in the estuary and adjacent area, we investigated surveys at 13 stations in June and July. The results show that, 1280 eggs, 5866 larvae are collected, the dominant fish eggs are Dotted gizzard shad (Konosiru spunctatus), silver sillago (Sillag osihama), Joyner's tongue-sole (Cynoglossus joyneri); the dominant larvae are Japanese anchovy (Engraulis japonicas), Tapertail anchovy (Coilia mystus) and the gobiidae fishes. The numbers of species (S), abundance (N), Margalef richness index (D), Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J') were calculated. The result showed that the values of S, N, H', D are low, but the value of J' is high in the middle of WSDR.		[Yang, Yanyan; Lv, Zhenbo; Li, Fan; Wang, Zhongquan; Sun, Chunxiao] Shandong Marine & Fishery Res Inst, Shandong Prov Key Lab Restorat Marine Ecol, Yantai, Peoples R China; [Xu, Qiang] Yantai Marine Safety Adm, Yantai, Peoples R China; [Yang, Yanyan] Shandong Marine & Fishery Res Inst, Shandong Prov Key Lab Restorat Marine Ecol, Yantai, Peoples R China				Sree Conference on Hydraulic Engineering and 2nd Sree Workshop on Environment and Safety Engineering	DEC 21-22, 2012	Soc Resources, Environm & Engn	Hong Kong, PEOPLES R CHINA	0							Engineering, Environmental	WOS:000328204700053		
J	Zhang, Huanjun; Lv, Zhenbo; Li, Fan; Zheng, Liang; Wang, Tiantian								Biodiversity of marine life in the Huanghe (Yellow River) estuary and adjacent area								HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING, 2012 SREE CONFERENCE								243	248					2013	2013	To gain a better understanding the inference of the Water and Sediment Discharge Regulation (WSDR) project on the marine biodiversity in the estuary and adjacent area, we investigated surveys at 8 stations in June and July. In each station, the abundance and/or biomass of every species, including Phytoplankton, Zooplankton, Macrobenthos, Ichthyoplankton and Nekton were recorded. The numbers of species (S), abundance (N) and/or biomass (W), Margalef richness index (D), Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J') were calculated. A t-test was used for testing if there exists significant difference between the two surveys. The result showed that even the values of S, N or W, D', H' and J' changed after WSDR, but no significant difference were found in each index of Zooplankton, Ichthyoplankton and Macrobenthos. Some indexes, such as S, D and J' of Phytoplankton, W of Nekton, has significant difference between the two surveys.		[Zhang, Huanjun; Lv, Zhenbo; Li, Fan; Zheng, Liang; Wang, Tiantian] Shandong Prov Key Lab Restorat Marine Ecol, Shandong Marine Fisheries Res Inst, Yantai, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Zhang, Huanjun] Shandong Prov Key Lab Restorat Marine Ecol, Shandong Marine Fisheries Res Inst, Yantai, Shandong, Peoples R China				Sree Conference on Hydraulic Engineering and 2nd Sree Workshop on Environment and Safety Engineering	DEC 21-22, 2012	Soc Resources, Environm & Engn	Hong Kong, PEOPLES R CHINA	0							Engineering, Environmental	WOS:000328204700039		
J	Murugesan, P.; Silambarasan, A.; Purusothaman, S.; Muthuvelu, S.; Anatharaj, T.								Diversity of invertebrate trawl bycatch off Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar, south-east coast of India								INDIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES				60	1			41	49					JAN-MAR 2013	2013	Invertebrate diversity along the south-east coast of India is rich and varied. Though many studies with respect to finfish bycatch resources have been carried out during yesteryears, only scanty information is available on invertebrate bycatch from tropical waters. The importance of invertebrates caught in the trawl bycatch has been recognised only recently by the scientific community, as the utility of invertebrate bycatch is manifold. The present study was undertaken to investigate and generate information on the diversity and species richness of invertebrates landed as trawl bycatch in Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar along the south-east coast of India. The study was undertaken in the inshore waters (5-35 m depth) of Cuddalore, Parangipettai and Pazhayar during Feb 2010 - Jan 2011. Altogether 66 species of invertebrates in Cuddalore, 75 in Parangipettai and 76 in Pazhayar were recorded during the study. The percentage composition revealed that in Cuddalore and Parangipettai, brachyuran crabs were the dominant group (37% and 46% respectively) followed by cephalopods (35% and 31% respectively), while in Pazhayar, gastropods dominanted (29%) followed by shrimps (24%) and other invertebrates were meagre. Diversity indices estimated showed variation between the regions. Shannon-Weiner diversity index ranged from 2.035 to 4.776; Margalef's richness index from 2.306 to 6.782; Pielou's evenness index varied from 0.488 to 0.957; taxonomic diversity varied from 45.08 to 83.53 and total phylogenetic diversity ranged from 733.33 to 1716.8.		[Murugesan, P.; Silambarasan, A.; Purusothaman, S.; Muthuvelu, S.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Anatharaj, T.] AVVM Sri Pushpam Coll Autonomous, Postgrad & Res Dept Zool, Thanjavur 613503, Tamil Nadu, India; [Murugesan, P.] Annamalai Univ, Fac Marine Sci, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India								5							Fisheries	WOS:000319849000007		
J	Li Yingyong; Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu								The Natural Restoration Capability of Vegetation in Different Site Types along the Expressway 25, Lu-Su Section, China								Applied Mechanics and Materials				253-255				1075	+		10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.253-255.1075			2013	2013	The natural restoration capability of vegetation along the expressway is of vital importance for the slope revegetation and maintenance. The Margalef's richness indexes (DMA), Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (Hp), Pielou's evenness (Jsw), Simpson Index (C), Importance Value Index (IVtr), Vegetation coverage and soil seed bank were used to assess the vegetation restoration capability of the expressway 25, Lu-Su section in China. Seventy-four quadrats ranged from 1 m X 1 m to 20 m X 20 m were studied and the analytical results indicated that Digitaria sanguinalis, Setariaviridis and Gramineae are the dominant species in the expressway slopes. Texture is the most important factor influencing the a diversity and vegetation coverage. Cinnamon soil is more suitable for the restoration compared with slopes the other kind of texture. The land use type and alien species invasion along the expressway are also vital important for the natural restoration. The soil seed bank in filling slope is more abundant than that of excavation slope. The natural restoration of vegetation along the expressway varies according to the site types and land use and most of the slopes have strong recovery ability.		[Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan, Shandong 250002, Peoples R China; [Zhao Fangying] Beijing Forestry Univ, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu] Beijing Fenglinyuan Ecol & Landscape Designing &, Beijing 100083, Peoples R China; [Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan, Shandong 250002, Peoples R China				2nd International Conference on Civil Engineering and Transportation (ICCET 2012)	OCT 27-28, 2012	Liaoning Tech Univ; Hong Kong Ind Technol Res Ctr	Guilin, PEOPLES R CHINA	1							Engineering, Civil	WOS:000319231600210		
J	Junoy, Juan; Castellanos, Carolina; Manuel Vieitez, Jose; Riera, Rodrigo								Seven years of macroinfauna monitoring at Ladeira beach (Corrubedo Bay, NW Spain) after the <i>Prestige</i> oil spill								OCEANOLOGIA				55	2			393	407		10.5697/oc.55-2.393			2013	2013	The exposed sandy beach of Ladeira (Corrubedo Bay, NW Spain) was sampled during seven years (2003-2009) after the Prestige oil spill (winter 2002-03), to determine interannual variations in the macroinfaunal community in two ways: (i) through ecological indices (species richness and abundances, Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness) and (ii) through the density of the most representative species. A clear zonation pattern was found, consisting of two zones: (i) the supralittoral, occupied by talitrid amphipods, isopods and insects, and (ii) the intertidal, where marine crustaceans and polychaetes prevailed. The amphipods Talitrus saltator and Talorchestia deshayesii dominated from the drift line upwards, and isopods (Eurydice spp.), polychaetes (Scolelepis spp.) and the amphipod Pontocrates arenarius dominated the intertidal. Univariate indices remained constant throughout the study period in the supralittoral, but they varied widely in the intertidal zone. Multivariate analysis showed that the Prestige oil spill scarcely affected the macroinfaunal community structure during the study period (2003-2009) and its effect was limited just to the first campaign (2003), six months after the Prestige accident.		[Junoy, Juan; Manuel Vieitez, Jose] Univ Alcala de Henares, Inst Franklin, EU US Marine Biodivers Res Grp, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Junoy, Juan; Castellanos, Carolina; Manuel Vieitez, Jose] Univ Alcala de Henares, Dept Ciencias Vida, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain; [Riera, Rodrigo] Ctr Invest Medioambient Atlant CIMA SL, CIMA SL, E-38206 Tenerife, Spain; [Riera, Rodrigo] QEERI, Dept Biodivers, Doha 5825, Qatar; [Junoy, Juan] Univ Alcala de Henares, Inst Franklin, EU US Marine Biodivers Res Grp, E-28871 Alcala De Henares, Spain								14							Oceanography	WOS:000320420800007		
J	Solomou, Alexandra D.; Sfougaris, Athanassios I.; Kalburtji, Kyriaki L.; Nanos, George D.								Effects of Organic Farming on Winter Plant Composition, Cover and Diversity in Olive Grove Ecosystems in Central Greece								COMMUNICATIONS IN SOIL SCIENCE AND PLANT ANALYSIS				44	1-4			312	319		10.1080/00103624.2013.741914			JAN 1 2013	2013	The present study aimed to assess the effects of organic farming in comparison with conventional on plant composition, plant cover (%), diversity [species richness, Shannon, Simpson, and evenness (Pielou's) indexes] and investigate and describe the relations among plant species richness, plant cover, indexes, and soil parameters (pH and temperature) in olive grove ecosystems during the winter. Organic olive groves had significantly greater values of cover, species richness, and Shannon and Simpson indexes than the conventional ones. Plant species richness was positively correlated to plant cover and Shannon and Simpson indexes but negatively correlated to evenness index for both farming system. Finally, plant cover was positively correlated to the Shannon and Simpson indexes for both farming systems. According to principal component analysis (PCA), for axis 1, positive correlation was detected among the plant species richness, soil temperature, and Shannon and Simpson diversity indexes, whereas for axis 2, negative correlation was detected between plant cover and soil pH. It can be concluded that the organic management system enhances herbaceous plant cover and diversity (species richness, Shannon and Simpson indexes) in olive grove ecosystems during the winter.		[Solomou, Alexandra D.; Sfougaris, Athanassios I.] Univ Thessaly, Lab Ecosyst & Biodivers Management, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, N Ionia 38446, Volos, Greece; [Kalburtji, Kyriaki L.] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Lab Ecol & Environm Protect, Sch Agr, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece; [Nanos, George D.] Univ Thessaly, Lab Pomol, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, N Ionia 38446, Volos, Greece; [Solomou, Alexandra D.] Univ Thessaly, Lab Ecosyst & Biodivers Management, Dept Agr Crop Prod & Rural Environm, Fytokou Str, N Ionia 38446, Volos, Greece								6							Agronomy; Plant Sciences; Chemistry, Analytical; Soil Science	WOS:000322303100030		
J	Crotteau, Justin S.; Varner, J. Morgan, III; Ritchie, Martin W.								Post-fire regeneration across a fire severity gradient in the southern Cascades								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				287				103	112		10.1016/j.foreco.2012.09.022			JAN 1 2013	2013	Large scale, high-severity fires are increasing in the western United States. Despite this trend, there have been few studies investigating post-fire tree regeneration. We established a study in the footprint of the 2000 Storrie Fire, a 23,000 ha wildfire that occurred in northern California, USA. We used a stratified sampling design to quantify post-fire vegetation dynamics across four levels of burn severity and three forest types on the Lassen National Forest nine and ten years following fire. Within each sampled stand, we recorded tree seedlings, forest overstory, shrub cover, and abiotic factors hypothesized to influence growth and establishment. Median conifer seedling densities varied substantially by burn severity: 1918 seedlings ha(-1) in the Unchanged units; 4838 seedlings ha(-1) in the Low-severity units; 6484 seedlings ha(-1) in the Medium-severity units; and 710 seedlings ha(-1) in the High-severity units. Increased burn severity was associated with greater shrub coverage: shrub cover in High-severity burns was more than three times those of lower burn severities. We calculated Shannon's Species Diversity (H') and Pielou's Evenness (E-H) indices to examine woody shrub and tree diversity. Abies spp. were by far the most abundant regenerating conifer species, which may be a concern for land managers; shrub cover after High-severity burns was dominated by Ceanothus spp. Although fir regeneration was prolific, the Storrie Fire generated diverse vegetative responses, potentially aiding in the reintroduction of the diverse landscape mosaic homogenized by a century of landscape-scale fire exclusion. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Crotteau, Justin S.; Varner, J. Morgan, III; Ritchie, Martin W.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific SW Res Stn, Redding, CA 96002 USA; [Crotteau, Justin S.] Humboldt State Univ, Dept Forestry & Wildland Resources, Arcata, CA 95521 USA; [Crotteau, Justin S.] US Forest Serv, USDA, Pacific SW Res Stn, 3644 Avtech Pkwy, Redding, CA 96002 USA								113							Forestry	WOS:000312352900010		
J	Zhang, Hui; John, Robert; Peng, Zechen; Yuan, Jianli; Chu, Chengjin; Du, Guozhen; Zhou, Shurong								The Relationship between Species Richness and Evenness in Plant Communities along a Successional Gradient: A Study from Sub-Alpine Meadows of the Eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, China								PLOS ONE				7	11					e49024	10.1371/journal.pone.0049024			NOV 9 2012	2012	The relationship between species richness and evenness across communities remains an unsettled issue in ecology from both theoretical and empirical perspectives. As a result, we do not know the mechanisms that could generate a relationship between species richness and evenness, and how this responds to spatial scale. Here we examine the relationship between species richness(S) and evenness (Pielou's J' evenness) using a chronosequence of successional sub-alpine meadow communities in the eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. These meadows range from natural community (never farmed), to those that have been protected from agricultural exploitation for periods ranging from 1 to 10 years. A total of 30 sampling quadrats with size of 0.5 m x 0.5 m were laid out along two transects at each meadow. Using correlation analyses we found a consistent negative correlation between S and J' in these communities along the successional gradient at the sampling scale of 0.5 m x 0.5 m. We also explored the relationship between S and J' at different sampling scales (from 0.5 m x 0.5 m to 10 m x 10 m) using properly measured ramet-mapped data of a10 m x 10 m quadrat in the natural community. We found that S was negatively corrected with J' at the scales of 0.5 m x 0.5 m to 2 m x 2 m, but such a relationships disappeared at relative larger scales (>= 2 m x 4 m). When fitting different species abundance models combined with trait-specific methods, we found that niche preemption may be the determining mechanism of species evenness along the succession gradient. Considering all results together, we can conclude that such niche differentiation and spatial scale effects may help to explain the maintenance of high species richness in sub-alpine meadow communities. Citation: Zhang H, John R, Peng Z, Yuan J, Chu C, et al. (2012) The Relationship between Species Richness and Evenness in Plant Communities along a Successional Gradient: A Study from Sub-Alpine Meadows of the Eastern Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, China. PLoS ONE 7(11): e49024. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0049024		[Zhou, Shurong] Fudan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [John, Robert] Indian Inst Sci Educ & Res, Dept Biol Sci, Kolkata, W Bengal, India; [Zhang, Hui; Peng, Zechen; Yuan, Jianli; Chu, Chengjin; Du, Guozhen] Lanzhou Univ, Sch Life Sci, State Key Lab Grassland Farming Syst, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, Peoples R China; [Zhou, Shurong] Fudan Univ, Sch Life Sci, Key Lab Biodivers Sci & Ecol Engn, Minist Educ, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China								26							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000312272600038		
J	Marsaro Junior, A. L.; Nascimento, D. B.; Ronchi-Teles, B.; Adaime, R.								Faunistic analysis of the species of <i>Anastrepha</i> Schiner (Diptera: Tephritidae) in three municipalities of the state of Roraima, Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				72	4			813	819		10.1590/S1519-69842012000500006			NOV 2012	2012	The purpose of this work was to describe the population patterns of Anastrepha in three municipalities of the state of Roraima, Brazil, via faunistic analysis. Weekly collections were performed from January through December 2008, using McPhail traps containing 5% hydrolysed protein, in domestic orchards in the municipalities of Boa Vista, Bonfim and Pacaraima. We captured 301 females of Anastrepha in Boa Vista, 212 in Bonfim, and 167 in Pacaraima. Boa Vista presented the highest species richness (S = 10) and Pacaraima the lowest (S = 4). Anastrepha striata was the predominant species in Boa Vista (47.18%) and Pacaraima (65.87%), whereas A. obliqua predominated in Bonfim (46.23%). Boa Vista presented the highest Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H' = 1.19) and Margalef index (alpha = 1.58), and Bonfim presented the highest Pielou's evenness index (J' = 0.69). In Pacaraima the cumulative curves reached stability, confirming that the observed and expected species richness were the same. In the other two municipalities, the curves showed a moderate growth, suggesting that the sampling effort was not sufficient to produce an accurate depiction of species richness. In this study, Anastrepha zernyi is reported for the first time in Roraima.		[Marsaro Junior, A. L.] Embrapa Trigo, BR-99001970 Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil; [Nascimento, D. B.] Univ Fed Amapa UNIFAP, Programa Posgrad Biodiversidade Trop, BR-68902280 Macapa, AP, Brazil; [Ronchi-Teles, B.] INPA, BR-69060001 Manaus, AM, Brazil; [Adaime, R.] Embrapa Amapa, BR-68903419 Macapa, AP, Brazil; [Marsaro Junior, A. L.] Embrapa Trigo, Rod BR 285,Km 294,CP 451, BR-99001970 Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil								4							Biology	WOS:000313282400005		
J	Collin, Antoine; Planes, Serge								Enhancing Coral Health Detection Using Spectral Diversity Indices from WorldView-2 Imagery and Machine Learners								REMOTE SENSING				4	10			3244	3264		10.3390/rs4103244			OCT 2012	2012	The worldwide waning health of coral reefs implies an increasing need for monitoring them at colony scale over large areas. Relaying fieldwork considerably, the remote sensing approach can address this need in offering spectral information relevant for coral health detection with 0.5 m spatial accuracy. We investigated the potential of spectral diversity indices to achieve the discrimination of coral-dominated assemblages and health states from novel satellite imagery (WorldView-2, WV2). Both Equitability's (E) and Pielou's (P) operators were used to quantify the evenness of the corrected visible spectral bands (two times 26 combinations of five bands) corresponding to remotely sensed colonies. Three scleractinian corals (Porites lobata, P. rus and Acropora pulchra) that are primarily involved in Moorea's reef building (French Polynesia) were examined in respect to their health state (healthy or unhealthy, referring to both bleached and dead coral, hereinafter). Using four classifiers, we showed that the Support Vector Machine (SVM) greatly discerned among the six coral classes based upon the five WV2 spectral bands (93%), thus surpassing the classification issued from the three traditionally used bands (80%). Coupling the WV2 dataset with Egreen-red, Eyellow-red or E"coastal"-blue-green allowed the SVM performance to attain 96%. On the other hand, adding the E"coastal"-blue to the WV2-dataset contributed to a substantially increase of the classification accuracy derived from the Random Forest classifier, stepping from 64% to 77%. Significant contributions of spectral diversity indices to surveying coral health were further discussed in the light of spectral properties of coral-related pigments. These findings may play a major role for the extensive monitoring of coral health states at a fine scale, and for the management and restoration of damaged coral reefs.		[Collin, Antoine; Planes, Serge] EPHE, CNRS, USR CRIOBE 3278, BP 1013, Papetoai 98729, Moorea, France; [Collin, Antoine] EPHE, CNRS, USR CRIOBE 3278, BP 1013, Papetoai 98729, Moorea, France								24							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Remote Sensing; Imaging Science & Photographic Technology	WOS:000313914100018		
J	Medihala, P. G.; Lawrence, J. R.; Swerhone, G. D. W.; Korber, D. R.								Spatial variation in microbial community structure, richness, and diversity in an alluvial aquifer								CANADIAN JOURNAL OF MICROBIOLOGY				58	9			1135	1151		10.1139/W2012-087			SEP 2012	2012	Relatively little is known regarding the spatial variability of microbial communities in aquifers where well fouling is an issue. In this study 2 water wells were installed in an alluvial aquifer located adjacent to the North Saskatchewan River and an associated piezometer network developed to facilitate the study of microbial community structure, richness, and diversity. Carbon utilization data analysis revealed reduced microbial activity in waters collected close to the wells. Functional PCR and quantitative PCR analysis indicated spatial variability in the potential for iron-, sulphate-, and nitrate-reducing activity at all locations in the aquifer. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of aquifer water samples using principal components analyses indicated that the microbial community composition was spatially variable, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis sequence analysis revealed that bacteria belonging to the genera Acidovorax, Rhodobacter, and Sulfuricurvum were common throughout the aquifer. Shannon's richness (H') and Pielou's evenness (J') indices revealed a varied microbial diversity (H' = 1.488-2.274) and an even distribution of microbial communities within the aquifer (J' = 0.811-0.917). Overall, these analyses revealed that the aquifer's microbial community varied spatially in terms of composition, richness, and metabolic activity. Such information may facilitate the diagnosis, prevention, and management of fouling.		[Medihala, P. G.; Korber, D. R.] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Food & Bioprod Sci, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A8, Canada; [Lawrence, J. R.; Swerhone, G. D. W.] Environm Canada, Saskatoon, SK S7N 3H5, Canada; [Korber, D. R.] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Food & Bioprod Sci, 51 Campus Dr, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A8, Canada								14							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Immunology; Microbiology	WOS:000308368400012		
J	Sokolowski, A.; Wolowicz, M.; Asmus, H.; Asmus, R.; Carlier, A.; Gasiunaite, Z.; Gremare, A.; Hummel, H.; Lesutiene, J.; Razinkovas, A.; Renaud, P. E.; Richard, P.; Kedra, M.								Is benthic food web structure related to diversity of marine macrobenthic communities?								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				108				76	86		10.1016/j.ecss.2011.11.011			AUG 1 2012	2012	Numerical structure and the organisation of food webs within macrozoobenthic communities has been assessed in the European waters (Svalbard, Barents Sea, Baltic Sea, North Sea, Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea) to address the interactions between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Abundance and classical species diversity indices (S, H', J) of macrofaunal communities were related to principal attributes of food webs (relative trophic level and food chain length, FCL) that were determined from carbon and nitrogen stable isotope values. Structure of marine macrobenthos varies substantially at a geographical scale; total abundance ranges from 63 ind. m(-2) to 34,517 ind. m(-2), species richness varies from 3 to 166 and the Shannon-Weaver diversity index from 0.26 to 3.26 while Pielou's evenness index is below 0.73. The major source of energy for macrobenthic communities is suspended particulate organic matter, consisting of phytoplankton and detrital particles, sediment particulate organic matter, and microphytobenthos in varying proportions. These food sources support the presence of suspension- and deposit-feeding communities, which dominate numerically on the sea floor. Benthic food webs include usually four to five trophic levels (FCL varies from 3.08 to 4.86). Most species are assigned to the second trophic level (primary consumers), fewer species are grouped in the third trophic level (secondary consumers), and benthic top predators are the least numerous. Most species cluster primarily at the lowest trophic level that is consistent with the typical organization of pyramidal food webs. Food chain length increases with biodiversity, highlighting a positive effect of more complex community structure on food web organisation. In more diverse benthic communities, energy is transferred through more trophic levels while species-poor communities sustain a shorter food chain. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Sokolowski, A.; Wolowicz, M.] Univ Gdansk, Inst Oceanog, PL-81378 Gdynia, Poland; [Asmus, H.; Asmus, R.] Alfred Wegener Inst Polar & Marine Res, Wattenmeerstn Sylt, D-25992 List Auf Sylt, Germany; [Carlier, A.] IFREMER, DYNECO Ecol Benth, F-29280 Plouzane, France; [Gasiunaite, Z.; Lesutiene, J.; Razinkovas, A.] Univ Klaipeda, Coastal Res & Planning Inst, LT-92294 Klaipeda, Lithuania; [Gremare, A.] Univ Bordeaux 1, UMR EPOC OASU Stn Marine Arcachon 5805, F-33120 Arcachon, France; [Hummel, H.] Netherlands Inst Ecol, Ctr Estuarine & Marine Ecol, NL-4401 NT Yerseke, Netherlands; [Renaud, P. E.] Akvaplan Niva AS, Fram Ctr Climate & Environm, N-9296 Tromso, Norway; [Richard, P.] Univ La Rochelle, CNRS, UMR 6250, F-17042 La Rochelle, France; [Kedra, M.] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, PL-81712 Sopot, Poland; [Sokolowski, A.] Univ Gdansk, Inst Oceanog, Al Pilsudskiego 46, PL-81378 Gdynia, Poland				ECSA 46 International Conference on Wadden Sea - Changes and Challenges in a World Heritage Site	MAY 03-06, 2010	Estuarine & Coastal Sci Assoc (ECSA)	Alfred Wegener Inst Polar & Marine Res (AWI), List, GERMANY	33							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000307610900009		
J	Lundin, Daniel; Severin, Ina; Logue, Jurg Brendan; Ostman, Orjan; Andersson, Anders F.; Lindstrom, Eva S.								Which sequencing depth is sufficient to describe patterns in bacterial - and -diversity?								ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY REPORTS				4	3			367	372		10.1111/j.1758-2229.2012.00345.x			JUN 2012	2012	The vastness of microbial diversity implies that an almost infinite number of individuals needs to be identified to accurately describe such communities. Practical and economical constraints may therefore prevent appropriate study designs. However, for many questions in ecology it is not essential to know the actual diversity but rather the trends among samples thereof. It is, hence, important to know to what depth microbial communities need to be sampled to accurately measure trends in diversity. We used three data sets of freshwater and sediment bacteria, where diversity was explored using 454 pyrosequencing. Each data set contained 615 communities from which 15 00020 000 16S rRNA gene sequences each were obtained. These data sets were subsampled repeatedly to 10 different depths down to 200 sequences per community. Diversity estimates varied with sequencing depth, yet, trends in diversity among samples were less sensitive. We found that 1000 denoised sequences per sample explained to 90% the trends in beta-diversity (Bray-Curtis index) among samples observed for 15 00020 000 sequences. Similarly, 5000 denoised sequences were sufficient to describe trends in a-diversity (Shannon index) with the same accuracy. Further, 5000 denoised sequences captured to more than 80% the trends in Chao1 richness and Pielou's evenness.		[Severin, Ina; Logue, Jurg Brendan; Lindstrom, Eva S.] Uppsala Univ, Dept Ecol & Genet Limnol, S-75236 Uppsala, Sweden; [Lundin, Daniel; Andersson, Anders F.] KTH Royal Inst Technol, Sch Biotechnol, Sci Life Lab, Div Gene Technol, S-17165 Solna, Sweden; [Lundin, Daniel] Bioinformat Infrastruct Life Sci, BILS, Vetenskapsradet, Sweden; [Ostman, Orjan] Uppsala Univ, Dept Ecol & Genet Populat Biol, S-75236 Uppsala, Sweden; [Lindstrom, Eva S.] Uppsala Univ, Dept Ecol & Genet Limnol, Norbyvagen 18D, S-75236 Uppsala, Sweden								90							Environmental Sciences; Microbiology	WOS:000303856500010		
J	Yashiro, Erika; McManus, Patricia S.								Effect of Streptomycin Treatment on Bacterial Community Structure in the Apple Phyllosphere								PLOS ONE				7	5					e37131	10.1371/journal.pone.0037131			MAY 21 2012	2012	We studied the effect of many years of streptomycin use in apple orchards on the proportion of phyllosphere bacteria resistant to streptomycin and bacterial community structure. Leaf samples were collected during early July through early September from four orchards that had been sprayed with streptomycin during spring of most years for at least 10 years and four orchards that had not been sprayed. The percentage of cultured phyllosphere bacteria resistant to streptomycin at non-sprayed orchards (mean of 65%) was greater than at sprayed orchards (mean of 50%) (P = 0.0271). For each orchard, a 16S rRNA gene clone library was constructed from leaf samples. Proteobacteria dominated the bacterial communities at all orchards, accounting for 71 of 104 OTUs (determined at 97% sequence similarity) and 93% of all sequences. The genera Massilia, Methylobacterium, Pantoea, Pseudomonas, and Sphingomonas were shared across all sites. Shannon and Simpson's diversity indices and Pielou's evenness index were similar among orchards regardless of streptomycin use. Analysis of Similarity (ANOSIM) indicated that long-term streptomycin treatment did not account for the observed variability in community structure among orchards (R = -0.104, P = 0.655). Other variables, including time of summer, temperature and time at sampling, and relative distance of the orchards from each other, also had no significant effect on bacterial community structure. We conclude that factors other than streptomycin exposure drive both the proportion of streptomycin-resistant bacteria and phylogenetic makeup of bacterial communities in the apple phyllosphere in middle to late summer.		[Yashiro, Erika; McManus, Patricia S.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Plant Pathol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Yashiro, Erika] Univ Lausanne, Dept Fundamental Microbiol, Lausanne, Switzerland								44							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000305343100013		
J	Tadych, Mariusz; Bergen, Marshall S.; Johnson-Cicalese, Jennifer; Polashock, James J.; Vorsa, Nicholi; White, James F., Jr.								Endophytic and pathogenic fungi of developing cranberry ovaries from flower to mature fruit: diversity and succession								FUNGAL DIVERSITY				54	1			101	116		10.1007/s13225-012-0160-2			MAY 2012	2012	Culturable fungal population diversity and succession was investigated in developing cranberry ovaries of fruit rot-resistant and rot-susceptible cranberry selections, from flower through mature fruit. Fungi were recovered in culture from 1185 of 1338 ovary tissues collected from June to September, yielding 2255 isolates that represented 42 morphotaxa. During the season, species richness varied from 2 to 17 and 2 to 18 in rot-resistant and rot-susceptible selections, respectively, increasing from wk1 to wk10 and then gradually declining to wk14. Shannon-Wiener diversity index varied from 0.27 to 2.32 in rot-resistant and 0.18 to 2.38 in rot-susceptible, and Pielou's evenness index varied from 0.11 to 0.63 and 0.06 to 0.64 in rot-resistant and rot-susceptible selections, respectively, confirming that diversity of fungi in developing ovaries was similar among rot-resistant and rot-susceptible selections, but varied among sampling time points. Principal component analysis grouped samples collected at the same sampling time point together regardless of rot susceptibility of the selections, and detected the predominant fungal species associated with each stage of development. Successional changes were observed in populations of endophytic, pathogenic and saprophytic fungi throughout the season as ovaries matured.		[Tadych, Mariusz; Bergen, Marshall S.; Vorsa, Nicholi; White, James F., Jr.] Rutgers State Univ, Dept Plant Biol & Pathol, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Johnson-Cicalese, Jennifer; Vorsa, Nicholi] Rutgers State Univ, Philip E Marucci Ctr Blueberry & Cranberry Res &, Chatsworth, NJ 08019 USA; [Polashock, James J.] USDA ARS, Genet Improvement Fruits & Vegetables Lab, Chatsworth, NJ 08019 USA; [Tadych, Mariusz] Rutgers State Univ, Dept Plant Biol & Pathol, 59 Dudley Rd, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA								59							Mycology	WOS:000303881300010		
J	Jose Alvarado, Juan; Guzman, Hector M.; Breedy, Odalisca								Distribution and diversity of echinoderms (Asteroidea, Echinoidea, Holothuroidea) in the islands of the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA MARINA Y OCEANOGRAFIA				47	1			13	22		10.4067/S0718-19572012000100002			APR 2012	2012	Studies on echinoderms along the Panamanian Pacific coast have focused mainly on evolutionary and molecular analyses, however little ecological research has been done and mainly only on 2 species: Diadema mexicanum and Acanthaster planci. Herein, we describe for the first time the diversity (based on Margalef, Shannon and Pielou indices), distribution and density of echinoderms for some islands of the Gulf of Chiriqui, implementing a standard regional methodology used for the Eastern Tropical Pacific Conservation Seascape. Fifty-three reef sites were surveyed, of which 17 echinoderm species were found: 6 asteroids, 6 echinoids and 5 holothuroids. The average species richness, Shannon diversity, and Pielou's evenness indices were 0.43 +/- 0.04, 0.187 +/- 0.020, and 0.421 +/- 0.035 respectively. On average there were 3 species and 176 individuals per site. Three echinoid species were the most abundant: D. mexicanum, Eucidaris thoaursii and Echinometra vanbrunti, with 7909, 771 and 569 individuals respectively. Despite the high abundance observed, their impact on the reefs as well as other corallivores species (e. g., A. planci) is low, and for the moment they are not considered a threat to the reefs. Reef zones with greater richness and diversity of echinoderm species are associated with sites showing higher coral diversity and moderate to high live coral cover. We suggest a continuous assessment of the populations possibly damaging these ecosystems, as well those species that may be under illegal extraction.		[Jose Alvarado, Juan; Breedy, Odalisca] Univ Costa Rica, Ctr Invest Ciencias Mar & Limnol CIMAR, San Jose 115012060, Costa Rica; [Jose Alvarado, Juan] Univ Autonoma Baja California Sur, La Paz, Mexico; [Guzman, Hector M.; Breedy, Odalisca] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa, Ancon, Panama; [Breedy, Odalisca] Univ Costa Rica, Museo Zool, Escuela Biol, San Jose, Costa Rica; [Jose Alvarado, Juan] Univ Costa Rica, Ctr Invest Ciencias Mar & Limnol CIMAR, San Jose 115012060, Costa Rica								19							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000304244800002		
J	Coelho, Marcel S.; Almada, Emmanuel D.; Quintino, Andre V.; Fernandes, Geraldo W.; Santos, Rubens M.; Arturo Sanchez-Azofeifa, G.; Espirito Santo, Mario M. D.								FLORISTIC COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF A TROPICAL DRY FOREST AT DIFFERENT SUCCESSIONAL STAGES IN THE ESPINHACO MOUNTAINS, SOUTHEASTERN BRAZIL								INTERCIENCIA				37	3			190	196					MAR 2012	2012	The floristic composition and structure of intermediate and late successional stages of a tropical dry forest (TDF) growing on limestone outcrops, situated in the southern portion of the Espinhaco Mountains, Southeastern Brazil, was studied. In each fragment, three plots of 20x50m were delimited, totaling 0.3ha for each successional stage. In each plot, all trees with a diameter at breast height (DBH) >5cm were sampled and identified. Standard phyto-sociological parameters were calculated and compared between stages. The most representative families in the two successional stages were Fabaceae, Apocynaceae and Malvaceae, but species composition differed between intermediate and late stages: species with highest importance value in the former were Myracrodruon urundeuva, Rauwolfia,sellowii and Inga platyptera, whereas Anadenanthera colubrina, Myracrodruon urundeuva and Bauhinia brevipes predominated in the latter. The main parameters measured varied with the successional stage. In the intermediate stage, the structural parameters were: basal area 17.8m(2).h(-1), density 1076 individuals/ha, average height 6.30m, species richness 23, while community indexes were Shannon-Winner biodiversity 1.51 and Pielou evenness 0.48. For the late succession stage, the structural parameters were: basal area 29.3m(2).h(-1), density 1226 individuals/ha, average height 7.7m and species richness 38; community indexes were Shannon-Winner's diversity 2.38 and Pielou's evenness 0.64. Due to the marked isolation, this TDF has a unique floristic composition. Results demonstrated important changes in floristic composition and structure along two successional stages, contributing to ecological process understanding. The limited knowledge about this rich ecosystem was expanded and the urgent need for its preservation is reinforced.		[Coelho, Marcel S.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, ICB, Ecol Evolut & Biodiversidade DBG, BR-30161970 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Coelho, Marcel S.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, BR-59072970 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Quintino, Andre V.] Pontificia Univ Catolica Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil; [Arturo Sanchez-Azofeifa, G.] Univ Costa Rica, San Pedro, Costa Rica; [Arturo Sanchez-Azofeifa, G.] Univ Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2M7, Canada; [Coelho, Marcel S.] Univ Fed Minas Gerais, ICB, Ecol Evolut & Biodiversidade DBG, CP 486, BR-30161970 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil								21							Ecology	WOS:000303350200005		
J	Carmassi, A. L.; Rondineli, G.; Ferreira, F. C.; Braga, F. M. S.								Composition and structure of fish assemblage from Passa Cinco stream, Corumbatai river sub-basin, SP, Brazil								BRAZILIAN JOURNAL OF BIOLOGY				72	1			87	96		10.1590/S1519-69842012000100011			FEB 2012	2012	The aim of this work was to determine the composition of the fish assemblage of Passa Cinco stream and verify changes in their structure on the altitudinal gradient. Six samples were performed at five different sites in Passa Cinco stream (from the headwater, at order two, to its mouth, at order six), using an electric fishery equipment and gill nets in May, July, September and November of 2005 and January and March of 2006. The indices of Shannon's diversity, Pielou's evenness and Margalef's richness were quantified separately considering the different fishery equipment (nets versus electric fishery equipment). An ANOVA was used to compare samples collected in relation to values of abundance, diversity, evenness and richness. The representativeness of the species was summarised by their average values of abundance and weight. We captured 5082 individuals distributed into 61 species. We observed a trend of increasing diversity, richness and evenness of species from site 1 to 3, with further decrease in sites 4 and 5. The values found for habitat diversity also followed this pattern. Significant differences were found for all three indices considering the electric fishery samples. For individuals caught with nets, only the richness index showed a significant difference. Characidium aff. zebra was an important species in the headwater and transition sites and Hypostomus strigaticeps in middle-lower course sites. Despite the small extension of the Passa Cinco stream, environments structurally well defined were evidenced by the species distribution and assemblage composition along the gradient.		[Carmassi, A. L.; Braga, F. M. S.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Zool, Inst Biociencias, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Rondineli, G.] UFES, Dept Prod Vegetal, Ctr Ciencias Agr, BR-29500000 Alegre, ES, Brazil; [Ferreira, F. C.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Ecol, Inst Biociencias, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Carmassi, A. L.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Dept Zool, Inst Biociencias, Av 24A,1515 Bela Vista,CP 199, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil								1							Biology	WOS:000301954700011		
J	Li Yingyong; Zhao Fangying; Wang Li; Liu Fei; Wang Jing; Zhu Chengdu								The Natural Restoration Capability of Vegetation in Different Site Types along the Expressway 25, Lu-Su Section, China								Advanced Materials Research				599				877	883		10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.599.877			2012	2012	The natural restoration capability of vegetation along the expressway is of vital importance for the slope revegetation and maintenance. The Margalef 's richness indexes (DMA), Shannon-Wiener's diversity index (Hp), Pielou's evenness (Jsw), Simpson Index (C), Importance Value Index (IVtr), Vegetation coverage and soil seed bank were used to assess the vegetation restoration capability of the expressway 25, Lu-Su section in China. Seventy-four quadrats ranged from 1 m X 1 m to 20 m X 20 m were studied and the analytical results indicated that Digitaria sanguinalis, Setariaviridis and Gramineae are the dominant species in the expressway slopes. Texture is the most important factor influencing the a diversity and vegetation coverage. Cinnamon soil is more suitable for the restoration compared with slopes the other kind of texture. The land use type and alien species invasion along the expressway are also vital important for the natural restoration. The soil seed bank in filling slope is more abundant than that of excavation slope. The natural restoration of vegetation along the expressway varies according to the site types and land use and most of the slopes have strong recovery ability.		[Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan 250002, Shandong, Peoples R China; [Li Yingyong] Shandong Prov Dept Commun, Highway Bur, Jinan 250002, Shandong, Peoples R China				Global Conference on Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering / 3rd International Symp on Multi-field Coupling Theory of Rock and Soil Media and its Applications	OCT 20-21, 2012	China Three Gorges Univ; Chinese Soc Rock Mech & Engn, Geoenvironmental Engn Branch; Chinese Soc Rock Mech & Engn, Ground Rock Engn Comm; Chinese Soc Mech, Fluid Mech Comm; Hubei Soc Rock Mech & Engn; Minist Educ, Key Lab Geol Hazards Three Gorges Reservoir Area; Hubei Three Gorges Reservoir Area Landslides Observat & Res Stn; SW Petr Univ; NE Petr Univ; Wuhan Polytechn Univ; Hubei Polytechn Univ; CnTech Co Ltd	China Three Gorges Univ, Yichang, PEOPLES R CHINA	0							Engineering, Environmental; Materials Science, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000318191700173		
J	Sanguansub, Sunisa; Goto, Hideaki; Kamata, Naoto								Guild structure of ambrosia beetles attacking a deciduous oak tree Quercus serrata in relation to wood oldness and seasonality in three locations in the Central Japan								ENTOMOLOGICAL SCIENCE				15	1			42	55		10.1111/j.1479-8298.2011.00484.x			JAN 2012	2012	In order to determine factors influencing ambrosia beetle guilds on Quercus serrata, we investigated ambrosia beetles guilds by using Q. serrata bait logs in three locations in the Central Japan. Timing of cutting trees and timing of exposure were artificially controlled. Influences of location, timing of cutting, timing of exposure and wood oldness on species richness, abundances and guild structure were analyzed. Species richness and abundance peaked on bolts prepared in AprilMay, on bolts exposed in July, and on 23-month-old bolts. Eliminating greatest influences of location on abundance, results of hierarchical partitioning showed that timing of cutting trees had a strong influence on both species richness and abundance. LOC-A (Aichi), in which Japanese oak wilt disease incidence occurred, showed the greatest species richness and the smallest value of Pielou's evenness. Abundance of the most major species was more than twice that of the second major species, which was a likely cause of the smallest evenness in LOC-A. Trees killed by the Japanese oak wilt disease may have increased the abundance of the major species. On the contrary, in LOC-C (Chichibu), alpha and beta diversity both given by Shannon index and Pielou's evenness were greatest among the three locations although species richness was smallest. High similarity between guilds in LOC-A and LOC-B (Chiba) was probably caused by similarity in vegetation. The location had the greatest effect on determining guild structure. Effect of timing of exposure was greater than timing of cutting. The effect of wood oldness was negligible. A hierarchical structure among the three factors was a likely cause of their relative importance determining guild structure.		[Sanguansub, Sunisa] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci, Tokyo, Japan; [Goto, Hideaki] Forestry & Forest Prod Res Inst, Kyushu Res Ctr, Kumamoto, Japan; [Kamata, Naoto] Univ Tokyo, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci, Univ Tokyo Chichibu Forest, Chichibu, Saitama, Japan; [Sanguansub, Sunisa] Univ Tokyo, Educ & Res Ctr, Univ Tokyo Forests, Grad Sch Agr & Life Sci,Bunkyo Ku, Tokyo 1138657, Japan								6							Entomology	WOS:000298477500006		
J	Liu, X.; Zhang, W.; Liu, Z.; Qu, F.; Tang, X.								Changes in species diversity and above-ground biomass of shrubland over long-term natural restoration process in the Taihang Mountain in North China								PLANT SOIL AND ENVIRONMENT				57	11			505	512		10.17221/216/2011-PSE			NOV 2011	2011	In order to restore the impaired forest ecosystem in China, great efforts including the banning of the animal grazing and cutting woods for fuel, and implementation of the 'Grain for Green' program have been made by the central and local government of China. The objective of this research was to investigate the changes in above-ground biomass and species diversity after 22 years of vegetation recovery efforts in the lower Taihang Mountain of China. The results indicated that over the natural restoration process shrubs became the dominant species in 2008, while herbs were the dominant species back in 1986. Community coverage, height and above-ground biomass showed significant increases in 2008 compared to 1986. Shrubs showed significant increases in coverage, height, and above-ground biomass, whereas herbs significantly increased in height, but decreased in above-ground biomass. Over the 22-year natural restoration process, the species richness index and the Shannon-Wiener's index had been significantly decreased, whereas the Simpson's predominance index and the Pielou's evenness index had been significantly increased. Long-term vegetation recovery efforts improved the impaired forest ecosystem in lower Taihang Mountain to some extent: significant increases in both community coverage and above-ground biomass. The significant increase in community coverage can reduce the soil loss by wind and water erosion, and increase in the above-ground biomass will improve the soil chemical properties and physical structure. A comprehensive assessment of the success of vegetation recovery should include the evaluation of the changes in ecological process such as soil biological activities in the future research.		[Liu, X.; Zhang, W.; Qu, F.] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Genet & Dev Biol, Hebei Key Lab Agr Water Saving, Ctr Agr Resources Res,Key Lab Agr Water Resources, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China; [Liu, Z.] Dynam Solut LLC, Knoxville, TN USA; [Tang, X.] Chinese Acad Sci, NE Inst Geog & Agroecol, Changchun, Peoples R China; [Zhang, W.] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Genet & Dev Biol, Hebei Key Lab Agr Water Saving, Ctr Agr Resources Res,Key Lab Agr Water Resources, Shijiazhuang, Peoples R China								14							Agronomy	WOS:000297536700003		
J	Danquah, Jones Abrefa; Appiah, Mark; Ari, Pappinen								Comparison of post-fire planted and natural dry semi-deciduous forest communities in Ghana								AFRICAN JOURNAL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH				6	23			5266	5277					OCT 19 2011	2011	The planting of mixed indigenous tree species for reforestation has gained attention in conservation biology, because they allow the recruitment of other woody species to a site. This study compared the differences in tree species diversity, structure, and composition between secondary dry semi-deciduous forests on two previously burned sites; one site had been planted ten-years prior with mixed mahogany species, while the other naturally regenerated after the fire. Density, dominance, frequency and importance value index (IVI) as well as family important values index (FIV) were computed to evaluate the floristic composition. A variety of diversity measures were also employed to examine heterogeneity in each forest type. For both sites, the most abundant diameter-class was 5-10 cm and the most abundant height-class was 1- 10 m. The study recorded significant differences between the two sites with respect to nearly all the indices of species diversity (Simpson, P = 0.037; Shannon, P = 0.003 and species richness, P = 0.003) employed, with the exception of Pielou's index of evenness (P = 0.06). The planted site recorded highest values for all the measures of species diversity. However, Sorensen's similarity index between planted and natural regeneration sites was 0.703. Seventeen and five species respectively were found to be solely associated with the planted and natural regeneration sites. At both sites the four most dominant and abundant tree species which recorded highest importance value index (IVI) were Ficus exasperate, Terminalia superba, Morida lucida, and Antiaris toxicaria. The greatest family importance values (FVI) for both sites were for Moraceae and Fabaceae, especially its sub-family Mimosaceae. The paper concludes that, use of mixed indigenous tree species in restoration facilitate the recruitment of a diverse group of other native tree species.		[Danquah, Jones Abrefa; Ari, Pappinen] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Fac Sci & Forestry, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland; [Appiah, Mark] Univ Helsinki, Viikki Trop Resources Inst, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Danquah, Jones Abrefa] Univ Eastern Finland, Sch Forest Sci, Fac Sci & Forestry, POB 111, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland								2							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000298504300011		
J	Wilmsen, Eileen; Schueller, Myriam								Diversity and distribution of Polychaeta in deep Antarctic and Subantarctic waters along the Greenwich meridian								DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY				58	19-20			2004	2012		10.1016/j.dsr2.2011.01.011			OCT 2011	2011	In the course of the ANDEEP-SYSTCO project, during the ANT XXIV-2 expedition in austral summer 2007/2008, the diversity and composition of the Polychaeta of the Antarctic deep-sea and adjacent South Atlantic basins were analyzed. A total of 847 individuals of 31 families were found belonging to 86 different species. Calculation of diversity (Shannon-Wiener Index, Pielou's Evenness) and the general species composition of Polychaeta showed patterns typical for the deep sea, with high species richness and low abundances. Lowest diversity was found in the Agulhas Basin in over 4000 m water depth. Lowest Evenness was found on top of Maud Rise where one-third of all Polychaeta belonged to one species. Cluster analyses resulted in higher affinities of Maud Rise to the Agulhas Basin than to the Antarctic continental slope. Explanations are sought in similarities of environmental factors (e.g., sediment, food input). (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Wilmsen, Eileen; Schueller, Myriam] Ruhr Univ Bochum, D-44780 Bochum, Germany; [Wilmsen, Eileen] Ruhr Univ Bochum, Univ Str 150, D-44780 Bochum, Germany								11							Oceanography	WOS:000295431900006		
J	Coelho, Geraldo Ceni; Rigo, Marivana da Silva; Libardoni, Juliana Boniatti; de Oliveira, Rosemeri; Benvenuti-Ferreira, Glaci								Understory structure in two successional stages of a Semi-deciduous Seasonal Forest remnant of Southern Brazil								BIOTA NEOTROPICA				11	3			63	74		10.1590/S1676-06032011000300004			JUL-SEP 2011	2011	The knowledge of structure and composition of forest strata contributes to understanding the conservation status and dynamics of plant communities. The study of forest understory is important to the knowledge of the succession process. The Seasonal Subtropical Forest remnant named Mato do Silva (27 degrees 55'26 '' S and 53 degrees 53'15 '' W) was studied aiming to describe the structure of understory in the late successional forest (LF) and in the young secondary forest (SF), an 11 years old post-agricultural site with canopy dominance of Ateleia glazioveana Baill. The phytosociological survey was carried out through the point quarter method and included individuals of tree and shrub species from 0.5 to 3.0 m of height. The sampling consisted of 384 individuals in LF (67 species) and 284 individuals in SF (20 species). A total of 79 species were observed, and only eight species occurred in both areas. The specific diversity (H') was 3.45 and 2.42 nats in the understory of LF and SF, respectively. The Pielou's evenness index (J) was 0.85 to LF and 0.80 to SF, respectively. Cupania vernalis Camb. and Psychotria leiocarpa Mull. A rg. were the prominent species in the LF while A. glazioveana and Solanum mauritianum Scop. were outstanding in the SF understory. Shade-tolerant and late secondary tree species occurred in large proportion in the LF forest, while pioneers and early secondary tree species predominated in the SF. In addition, certain dominant species in the understory of the SF were absent in the LF understory, such as A. glazioveana, Solanum compressum L. B. Sm. & Downs, Helietta apiculata Bentham and Gledtisia amorphoides (Griseb.) Taubert, which indicates that such species are associated to early stages of forest succession. G. amorphoides is considered an endangered species, and the early successional stages could be necessary for conservation of this species. A decrease in the pH and mineral nutrient levels in the soil was linked to the successional process, indicating the transference of nutrients to the aboveground biomass.		[Coelho, Geraldo Ceni] UFFS, Dept Biol & Quim, UNIJUI, MEC Sesu PET, BR-89812000 Chapeco, SC, Brazil; [Rigo, Marivana da Silva; Libardoni, Juliana Boniatti; de Oliveira, Rosemeri; Benvenuti-Ferreira, Glaci] Univ Reg Noroeste Estado Rio Grande Sul UNIJUI, BR-98700000 Ijui, RS, Brazil; [Coelho, Geraldo Ceni] UFFS, Dept Biol & Quim, UNIJUI, MEC Sesu PET, Av Presidente Getulio Vargas,609N,Edificio Engeme, BR-89812000 Chapeco, SC, Brazil								4							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000299853800005		
J	Suehs, Rafael Barbizan; Budke, Jean Carlos								Spatial distribution, association patterns and richness of tree species in a seasonal forest from the Serra Geral formation, southern Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				25	3			605	617					JUL-SEP 2011	2011	(Spatial distribution and association patterns of tree species in a seasonal forest from the Serra Geral formation, southern Brazil). This study aimed to determine the spatial distribution of the most abundant tree species, to look for relationships that may be responsible for their distribution and to compare the expected richness along the Serra Geral formation in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. An one-hectare plot was divided in 100 contiguous 10 x 10 m sampling units and all individuals with at least 4.8 cm diameter at breast high were measured and identified. Each sampling unit received a description of the spatial position through metric coordinates (x,y) in order to quantify the spatial pattern. Later, an association index among species was applied. The observed richness was rarefied and compared to other surveys located on the slopes of Serra Geral in Rio Grande do Sul. We surveyed 1,063 individuals belonging to 69 species and 33 families, and the Shannon's diversity index showed a diversity of 3.35 nats (Pielou's species evenness - J' = 0.79). Most species showed an aggregated distribution. Both association and dissociation patterns occurred among species leading to distinct forest patches. The rarefaction results showed a decrease of Atlantic species, which were replaced by typical seasonal forest species, when analyzing floristic contingents towards the west.		[Suehs, Rafael Barbizan; Budke, Jean Carlos] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Lab Sistemat & Ecol Vegetal, Erechim, RS, Brazil; [Suehs, Rafael Barbizan] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Lab Sistemat & Ecol Vegetal, Erechim, RS, Brazil								9							Plant Sciences	WOS:000297274100014		
J	Bertsch, Hans								NUDIBRANCH FEEDING BIOGEOGRAPHY: ECOLOGICAL NETWORK ANALYSIS OF INTER- AND INTRA-PROVINCIAL VARIATIONS								THALASSAS				27	2			155	168					JUL 2011	2011	Timed nudibranch-density studies were performed in four different central and eastern Pacific zoogeographic provinces: Hawaiian, Oregonian, Sea of Cortez and Mexican. Densities and relative percentages of species and specimens observed were compared with all known species recorded from each faunal province to determine the functional structures of nudibranch community networks. There were greater correlations of nudibranch abundances by feeding preference between provinces than from sites within a province. Diversity (Shannon-Wiener H' and Pielou's J' evenness) indices revealed contrasting patterns for bryozoan, cnidarian and sponge feeder abundances. At all levels, variation varies, resulting in complexly different relationships.		Univ Autonoma Baja California, Inst Invest Oceanol, Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico; [Bertsch, Hans] Univ Autonoma Baja California, Inst Invest Oceanol, Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico								2							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000291629300010		
J	Tecchio, Samuele; Ramirez-Llodra, Eva; Sarda, Francisco; Baptista Company, Joan								Biodiversity of deep-sea demersal megafauna in western and central Mediterranean basins								SCIENTIA MARINA				75	2			341	350		10.3989/scimar.2011.75n2341			JUN 2011	2011	Abundance, biomass and diversity patterns of bathyal and abyssal Mediterranean megafauna (fishes and invertebrates) were analyzed in the western Balearic Sea, the western Ionian Sea and the eastern Ionian Sea. Sampling was conducted with a Otter-trawl Maireta System (OTMS) at depths ranging from 600 to 4000 m. A series of ecological indicators were computed: total abundance and biomass, Margalef species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's index of evenness. A multidimensional scaling was applied, indicating that the megafauna communities were grouped by depth, while geographic area had a less defined influence. Margalef richness declined with depth in all three areas, but more steeply in the western Ionian Sea. Pielou's evenness behaved differently in the three zones, showing a V-shaped curve in the eastern Ionian while showing a decreasing pattern in the other two areas. At lower slope depths, massive presence of the fishes Alepocephalus rostratus in the western basin and Bathypterois mediterraneus in the central basin caused a sharp reduction in evenness.		[Tecchio, Samuele; Ramirez-Llodra, Eva; Sarda, Francisco; Baptista Company, Joan] CSIC, Inst Ciencies Mar, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain; [Tecchio, Samuele] CSIC, Inst Ciencies Mar, Passeig Maritim Barceloneta 37-49, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain								33							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000292995500013		
J	Rosa, Beatriz F. J. V.; da Silva, Marcos V. D.; de Oliveira, Vivian C.; Martins, Renato T.; Alves, Roberto da G.								Macroinvertebrates associated with bryophyta in a first-order Atlantic Forest stream								ZOOLOGIA				28	3			351	356		10.1590/S1984-46702011000300009			JUN 2011	2011	This study describes the composition and structure of the benthic community associated with bryophytes in a first-order stream, located in a biological reserve of the Atlantic Forest, during two seasons. During three months of the dry season of 2007 and three months of the rainy season of 2008, samples of bryophytes attached to stones were collected randomly, along a 100 m stream reach. The structure of the community was analyzed through the mean density of individuals, Shannon's diversity index, Pielou's evenness, family richness, dominance index, and the percentage of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (% EPT). Chironomidae larvae were dominant in the two periods of study, followed by Ceratopogonidae in the rainy season, and Naididae in the dry season. The orders EPT contributed 14 families. The results showed that bryophytes constitute suitable habitat which is able to shelter an abundant and diversified benthic fauna in a small extension of the stream. This habitat provides refuge during spates, and thus minimizes downstream transport of the macroinvertebrate fauna.		[Rosa, Beatriz F. J. V.; da Silva, Marcos V. D.; de Oliveira, Vivian C.; Martins, Renato T.; Alves, Roberto da G.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Lab Invertebrados Benton, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Biol Comportamento & Bi, Dept Zool,Inst Ciencias Biol, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Rosa, Beatriz F. J. V.] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Lab Invertebrados Benton, Programa Posgrad Ciencias Biol Comportamento & Bi, Dept Zool,Inst Ciencias Biol, BR-36036330 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil								6							Zoology	WOS:000292720500009		
J	Najar, Ishtiyaq Ahmed; Khan, Anisa B.								Earthworm communities of Kashmir Valley, India								TROPICAL ECOLOGY				52	2			151	162					MAY 2011	2011	Information available on the earthworm communities of Kashmir Valley, India, being limited, the present study evaluates the diversity, distribution and seasonal population density of earthworms in the Kashmir Valley, as well as interhabitat community variation. A total of eight earthworm species belonging to three different families. Moniligastridae, Megascolecidae and Lumbricidae were recorded. Out of eight species, three species: Aporrectodea caliginosa caliginosa, Octolasion cyaneum and Eisenia fetida are reported for the first time from Kashmir Valley. Earthworm population density varied significantly among the sites (F-19,F-60 = 9.46, P < 0.05): among the seasons (F-3,F-76 = 3.64, P < 0.05) and ranged from 11 to 159 No. m(-2). Earthworm population biomass also varied significantly among the sites (F-19,F-60 = 11.01, P < 0.05), among the seasons (F-3,F-76 = 3.2, P < 0.05) and ranged from 3.41 to 48.14 g m(-2). Margalef species richness was 0.13 to 0.32, Shannon-Wiener diversity indices were 0.45 to 1.09 and Pielou's evenness 0.64 to 0.99. The number of species of earthworms was positively correlated with soil organic carbon (r = 0.539; P < 0.05), organic nitrogen (r = 0.724; P < 0.01) and moisture (r = 0.585; P < 0.01). These data suggest that the number of earthworm species is greater in those sites where organic carbon, organic nitrogen and moisture are higher, thus human-controlled systems exhibited higher diversity.		[Najar, Ishtiyaq Ahmed; Khan, Anisa B.] Pondicherry Cent Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Pondicherry 605014, India; [Khan, Anisa B.] Pondicherry Cent Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Pondicherry 605014, India								12							Ecology	WOS:000288637900002		
J	Hasumi, Masato; Hongorzul, Tsagaan; Terbish, Khayankhyarvaa								Animal species diversity at a land-water ecotone in Mongolia								LIMNOLOGY				12	1			37	45		10.1007/s10201-010-0319-z			APR 2011	2011	The biodiversity of wetland ecosystems has received scant attention in Mongolia. We measured amphibian and macroinvertebrate species diversity at a complicated land-water ecotone of a pond within a wetland complex in Shaamar during July 2005. From our study area (0.5-ha grassland and an adjacent pond), we sampled 4,926 animals including 1 mammal, 4 amphibian, and 26 aquatic macroinvertebrate (> 2 mm) species with a biomass of 4,444 g. Among these, a backswimmer (Notonectidae sp. 1) was a dominant species, representing 65% of the total number of animals collected (3,209) and 22% of the mass (999 g). Our study area was small but contained 4 amphibian species (Hyla japonica, Rana amurensis, Bufo raddei, and Salamandrella keyserlingii) in a mixed community with Shannon Diversity Index (H') of 1.678 and Pielou's Evenness Index (J') of 1.211. No larvae or tadpoles of any amphibian species were found in the pond, indicating their early metamorphosis. H' and J' with 26 macroinvertebrate species were estimated to be 1.828 and 0.561, respectively. This suggests that low macroinvertebrate species diversity relative to high species richness is due to low evenness resulting from considerable numbers of a backswimmer. In 6 sites sampled in the pond, mean water pH revealed high alkalinity (range 9.01-10.45). The presence of our taxa in a highly alkaline environment indicates that they may be alkaliphilic.		[Hasumi, Masato] Niigata Univ, Inst Biol, Fac Sci, Niigata 9502181, Japan; [Hongorzul, Tsagaan] Mongolian State Univ Educ, Dept Biol, Ulaanbaatar 210648, Mongolia; [Terbish, Khayankhyarvaa] Natl Univ Mongolia, Dept Ecol & Conservat Biol, Ulaanbaatar 210646, Mongolia; [Hasumi, Masato] Niigata Univ, Inst Biol, Fac Sci, Niigata 9502181, Japan								7							Limnology	WOS:000288559600005		
J	Schmitter-Soto, Juan J.; Ruiz-Cauich, Lissie E.; Herrera, Roberto L.; Gonzalez-Solis, David								An Index of Biotic Integrity for shallow streams of the Hondo River basin, Yucatan Peninsula								SCIENCE OF THE TOTAL ENVIRONMENT				409	4			844	852		10.1016/j.scitotenv.2010.11.017			JAN 15 2011	2011	An Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) is proposed, based on the fish communities and populations in streams of the Hondo River basin, Mexico-Belize. Freshwater environments in this area are threatened by exotic fishes, eutrophication, and pesticide pollution, among other problems. This IBI should allow to identify the most vulnerable sites and eventually guide rehabilitation efforts. Data on composition, structure, and function of fish communities were evaluated. Twenty-three sites in the Mexican part of the basin were explored; a stratified sample of 13 sites was used to design the IBI, and the rest were used to test and refine the index. Thirty-four candidate indicator metrics were scanned for their correlation with an index of water and habitat quality (IWHQ), as well as for the possible influence of stream width and altitude or distance to the Hondo River mainstem. Twelve variables were selected to constitute the IBI: relative abundances of Astyanax aeneus, 'Cichlasoma' urophthalmus, Poecilia mexicana, Poecilia sp. (a new species, probably endemic to the upper Hondo River basin), Xiphophorus hellerii, and X. maculatus; relative abundances of bentholimnetic, herbivore, and sensitive species; percentage of native and tolerant species; and Pielou's evenness index. Most of the sites have a low-medium quality and integrity, showing impact due to partial channelization or to suboptimal water quality, reflected in scarcity or absence of sensitive species, frequent excess of tolerant species, occasional presence of exotics, dominance of herbivores (perhaps due to proliferation of filamentous algae), or dominance of the opportunistic species P. mexicana. The streams with better water and habitat quality are those farthest away from the river mainstem, probably because of lower human population and economical production.		[Schmitter-Soto, Juan J.; Ruiz-Cauich, Lissie E.; Herrera, Roberto L.; Gonzalez-Solis, David] CONACYT, Chetmal 77000, Quintana Roo, Mexico; [Schmitter-Soto, Juan J.] ECOSUR, AP 424, Chetmal 77000, QR, Mexico								17							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000287109300023		
J	Perez-Velazquez, Daniela; Castano-Meneses, Gabriela; Callejas-Chavero, Alicia; Palacios-Vargas, Jose G.								Mesostigmatid mite (Acari: Mesostigmata) diversity and abundance in two sites in Pedregal de San Angel Ecological Reserve, Distrito Federal, Mexico								Zoosymposia				6				255	259		10.11646/zoosymposia.6.1.34			2011	2011	The Pedregal de San Angel Ecological Reserve (REPSA) is located in the central campus of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM), in Mexico City. Diversity and abundance of edaphic mites of the order Mesostigmata were estimated in two sites of REPSA. One site had scanty vegetation, due to human alterations, and was designated as "open site" (O), whereas the other had less altered, denser vegetation, being designated as "closed site" (C). Samples of soil and litter collected during the rainy and dry seasons of 2008 were processed for the extraction of mites of that group, which were then mounted and quantified by morphospecies. Mite abundance was much higher in site O, but the number of morphospecies was about the same in both sites. The same mite families were found in both sites. For each season and for both seasons considered together, Shannon diversity and Pielou's evenness indexes were significantly higher in site C. Sorensen similarity coefficient between sites was high in both seasons, but higher in the dry season; considering both seasons together, similarity coefficient between sites was 94%. This indicates that anthropogenic alteration of the vegetation at REPSA, reducing the height of the vegetation and turning it less dense, was not sufficient to cause major alterations in Mesostigmata species composition.		[Perez-Velazquez, Daniela; Castano-Meneses, Gabriela; Palacios-Vargas, Jose G.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Castano-Meneses, Gabriela] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Unidad Multidisciplinaria Docencia Invest, Queretaro 76230, Mexico; [Callejas-Chavero, Alicia] Inst Politicn Nacl, Dept Botan, Lab Ecol Vegetal, Escuela Nacl Ciencias Biol gicas, Mexico City, DF 11340, Mexico; [Perez-Velazquez, Daniela] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico				13th International Congress of Acarology (ICA)	AUG 23-27, 2010	Brazilian Banco Nordeste; Coordenacao Aperfeicoamento Pessoal Nivel Super; Conselho Nacl Desenvolvimento Cientifico & Tecnologico; Fundacao Amparo Ciencia & Tecnologia Estado Pernambuco; Acad Sci Developing World	Recife, BRAZIL	1							Entomology	WOS:000346128600032		
J	Messina, Giuseppina; Montesanto, Giuseppe; Pezzino, Elisa; Caruso, Domenico; Lombardo, Bianca M.								Diversity of terrestrial isopods in a protected area characterized by salty coastal ponds (Vendicari, Sicily)								JOURNAL OF NATURAL HISTORY				45	35-36			2145	2158		10.1080/00222933.2011.587899			2011	2011	The diversity of Oniscidean isopods was studied in Vendicari, a protected area in southeastern Sicily characterized by salty ponds separated from the sea by narrow bands of land. Samples were collected in pitfall traps placed in transects from the coastline to the ponds and from the ponds inland. Twenty-three species were identified, only seven of which were present at all sampling sites. Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness indices revealed higher values in the spring and autumn; activity indices were also calculated for each species for all months of the year. Similarity among sampling sites was evaluated qualitatively with Jaccard's index and quantitatively with Sorensen's index. The ponds seem to play the same role as the seacoasts regarding species zonation.		[Messina, Giuseppina; Montesanto, Giuseppe; Pezzino, Elisa; Caruso, Domenico; Lombardo, Bianca M.] Univ Catania, Dipartimento Biol Marcello La Greca, Catania, Italy; [Lombardo, Bianca M.] Univ Catania, Dipartimento Biol Marcello La Greca, Catania, Italy								31							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000292822200001		
J	Gomes-Anaya, J. A.; Novelo-Gutierrez, R.								RICHNESS AND STRUCTURE OF AN ODONATA LARVAL ASSEMBLAGE FROM RIO PINOLAPA, TEPALCATEPEC, MICHOACAN, MEXICO IN RELATION TO THEIR HABITAT CHARACTERISTICS								ODONATOLOGICA				39	4			287	303					DEC 1 2010	2010	The odon. larval assemblage from Rio Pinolapa (RP) in the municipality of Tepal-catepec. Michoacan, is described. Sampling was conducted twice in each season (8 trips in total), and additionally some physicochemical variables of the river channel were recorded. Strata (shores, riffles and eddies) and seasonal variation of assemblages are described and compared using classical diversity measures such as Shannon's diversity index, Simpson's diversity index as a dominance measure, Margalef's richness index and Pielou's evenness index. For comparing strata and seasonal diversity the Renyis diversity profiles were used. A Cluster Analysis was performed on a Bray-Curtis similarity matrix to explore the faunal relationships among year seasons and strata. CCA was also performed to investigate the relationships between the physicochemical and species abundance matrixes. As results, 28 spp. (12 Zygoptera and 16 Anisoptera) were recorded as larvae. Most abundant species were Erpetogomphus claps. Brechmorhoga praecox and Phyllogomphoides The highest number of spp. was registered in winter and the lowest in summer. Among strata the highest abundance was recorded in riffles, although the shoreline had the largest number of spp. The most similar assemblages were those of autumn and winter. Shore habitats were more heterogeneous than eddies and riffles and this could explain the larger number of species. The Clench's model explains better the data. Additionally, we used the slope of cumulative number of spp. curve for assessing completeness of the RP list. CCA was significant, with pH, autumn, shoreline and riffles the most important variables. This means that species variation is related to physicochemical, temporal and strata conditions in RP.		[Gomes-Anaya, J. A.; Novelo-Gutierrez, R.] Inst Ecol AC, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico; [Gomes-Anaya, J. A.] Inst Ecol AC, Apartado Postal 63, Xalapa 91070, Veracruz, Mexico								4							Entomology	WOS:000285219400001		
J	Datta, S. N.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Jaiswar, A. K.; Ziauddin, G.								A comparative study on intertidal faunal biodiversity of selected beaches of Mumbai coast								JOURNAL OF ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY				31	6			981	986					NOV 2010	2010	Comparative study has been done to examine the biodiversity and ecological status of the intertidal region of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Bandstand and National Centre for Performirig Arts (NCPA) rocky beaches in Mumbai, West coast of India. A total of 50 species of intertidal organisms were recorded from these shores. Shannon and Simpson's diversity index, Margalef's richness index and Pielou's evenness index indicated different level of ecological state of the shore in different months. Dendrograms and 2-D non metric MDS ordination from Bray-Curtis similarity matrix of occurrence of intertidal organisms from these sites showed highest similarity and combination pattern of occurrence between Nerita oryzarum and Planaxis sulcatus in TIFR and Bandstand shore. Nerita oryzarum and Tactarius malaccanus at NCPA shore. Abundance/biomass comparison (ABC) method of determining level of disturbance also pointed towards the polluted status of these shores. Study concludes that though these beaches are highly disturbed due to anthropogenic activities, they still support a rich intertidal biodiversity which need immediate attention for protection and conservation.		[Datta, S. N.; Chakraborty, S. K.; Jaiswar, A. K.] Deemed Univ, ICAR, Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Fisheries Resource Management Div, Bombay 400061, Maharashtra, India; [Ziauddin, G.] Cent Res Inst Jute & Allied Fibres ICAR, Fishery Sci Div, Burdwan 713403, W Bengal, India; [Datta, S. N.] Deemed Univ, ICAR, Cent Inst Fisheries Educ, Fisheries Resource Management Div, Bombay 400061, Maharashtra, India								9							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000283973300015		
J	Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco								Ecological assessment of highly heterogeneous systems: The importance of taxonomic sufficiency								LIMNOLOGICA				40	3			208	214		10.1016/j.limno.2009.06.011			SEP 2010	2010	We assess the effects of taxonomic resolution (genus-family levels) on the ecological assessment of 39 highly heterogeneous ponds located in north-western Spain. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) and one-way analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) were used to investigate the effects of taxonomic resolution on the macroinvertebrate assemblage structure. The Mann Whitney U-test and discrimination efficiency were used to assess the ability of nine diversity measures (total richness, rarefied richness samples of 25, 50 and 100 individuals, Margalef's index, Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Weaver's index, Simpson's index and percent dominant taxon) to discriminate between acceptable (best available and good conditions) and unacceptable (moderate, poor and very poor) conditions using three levels of taxonomic resolution: (i) family, (ii) family plus subfamilies of benthic non-biting midges and (iii) genus level. Based on non-metric MDS, the macroinvertebrate assemblages of ponds of acceptable (A) and unacceptable (N) conditions were statistically undistinguishable, both at genus and family levels. On the other hand, based on several community metrics (total richness, Margalef index, etc.) the two sets of samples were statistically different, although only when the genus or the subfamily level was used and after Bonferroni correction. These results suggest that the structure of macroinvertebrate assemblages by itself is more sensitive than the specific composition in distinguishing the fauna living in acceptable and unacceptable conditions. Moreover, dealing with families including many taxa generally showing different tolerance to disturbance may lead to misclassification of ponds. We agree, however, that the two approaches, i.e. assemblage composition and diversity measures, are conceptually different and hence they should be used in combination for a better understanding of the response of single metrics. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco] Univ Leon, Dept Biodivers & Environm Management, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, E-24071 Leon, Spain; [Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Environm Assessment, POB 7050, Uppsala, Sweden								11							Limnology	WOS:000280034600002		
J	Cutz-Pool, Leopoldo Q.; Palacios-Vargas, Jose G.; Cano-Santana, Zenon; Castano-Meneses, Gabriela								DIVERSITY PATTERNS OF COLLEMBOLA IN AN ELEVATIONAL GRADIENT IN THE NW SLOPE OF IZTACCIHUATL VOLCANO, STATE OF MEXICO, MEXICO								ENTOMOLOGICAL NEWS				121	3			249	261					MAY-JUN 2010	2010	Data are presented about the pattern diversity of springtails found in moss on bark along an elevational gradient (2,750-3,440 m) on the NW slope of Iztaccihuatl Volcano, State of Mexico, Mexico. The study includes sampling carried out at seven elevations. Calculated indices were: species richness (S), Shannon's diversity index (H'), Pielou's evenness index (J') and Simpson dominance (lambda). A linear regression analysis was made to evaluate the effect of elevation on the total springtail density. The total number of species was 30, with 18 species from the lowest elevation and 9 species from the highest. The greatest density was obtained at the highest elevation. Pseudisotoma Willowsia mexicana and Americabrya arida were the dominant species, and there is a positive significant relationship between the elevation and their density. The greatest similarity between communities in agreement with dendrogram is near 80% between elevations of 3,115 and 3,250m.		[Cutz-Pool, Leopoldo Q.; Palacios-Vargas, Jose G.; Cano-Santana, Zenon; Castano-Meneses, Gabriela] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Cutz-Pool, Leopoldo Q.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico								9							Entomology	WOS:000295426700006		
J	Castro, Sergio A.; Badano, Ernesto; Guzman, Daniela; Cavieres, Lohengrin								Biological invasion of a refuge habitat: Anthriscus caucalis (Apiaceae) decreases diversity, evenness, and survival of native herbs in the Chilean matorral								BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS				12	5			1295	1303		10.1007/s10530-009-9547-8			MAY 2010	2010	In central Chile, the bur beak chervil (Anthriscus caucalis M. Bieb.; Apiaceae) is an annual naturalized herb introduced from Europe at least 120 years ago. Anthriscus is distributed in vegetation formations such as sclerophyllous shrublands (locally known as "matorral") and spiny savannas of Acacia caven (locally known as "espinal"). In matorral formations, Anthriscus grows at the edge of native woody fragments. Because these fragments are refuges where native herbs recruit, we studied the impact of Anthriscus on the diversity and survival of native forbs established in these sheltering microsites. First, we characterized the spatial distribution of Anthriscus in the matorral, sampling in different micro-habitat types. We differentiated three microhabitat types: under the canopy of a fragment, at the edge of the canopy of a fragment, and in open sites outside the fragments. A total of 40 1 x 1 m quadrates were randomly distributed in each habitat type. Inside each of them, we recorded the number of seedlings and established plants, including Anthriscus. Then we evaluated experimentally the effect of Anthriscus on diversity and evenness of the local herb assemblages. For this purpose we conducted a field trial using 34 metallic enclosures (0.5 x 0.5 m) arranged in pairs. In each pair, Anthriscus individuals were removed from one plot, the other paired plot acting as control. We periodically recorded the presence and abundance of the remanent species of herbs inside the plots, and then we characterized the species diversity and evenness over time (Shannon's index, H' and Pielou's index, J'). Finally, in a second experiment we measured experimentally the presence or absence of Anthriscus against the survival of four native herb species (Bowlesia incana, Bromus berteroanus, Pectocarya linearis, and Moscharia pinnatifida). Here we used 20 0.5 x 0.5 m plots where we randomly transplanted seedlings of native herbs and Arnthiscus. Then, for each species and plot we determined their survival (%) according to the number of seedlings initially transplanted. The samplings show strong association between the presence of Anthriscus on edge habitat in the matorral. The maximum densities were noted in these microhabitat types whereas in open areas and under-fragment sites Anthriscus shows very low or null densities. At the end of the first trials, the plots with Anthriscus showed a Shannon diversity index H' = 0.41 (+/- 0.11 SE), while in plots without Anthriscus this value was 1.19 (+/- 0.1 SE), both as averages. Pielou's evenness index (J') yielded values of 0.23 (+/- 0.06 SE) and 0.59 (+/- 0.04 SE) for treatments with and without Anthriscus, respectively. Similarly, the second trials shows that the survival of the four native herbs was drastically decreased in the presence of Anthriscus: by 64% for Bowlesia incana, 43% for Bromus berteroanus, 46% for Moscharia pinnatifida, and 76% for Pectocaria linearis. Our study shows that the effects of Anthriscus include an inhibition of the establishment of native plants and a decrease in their survival in edge habitats, therefore affecting the composition and diversity of the local herb layer. Thus, Anthriscus is invading a refuge habitat for native herbs in the Chilean matorral, decreasing the native herb diversity and survival.		[Castro, Sergio A.] Univ Santiago Chile, Dept Biol, Fac Quim & Biol, Santiago, Chile; [Badano, Ernesto; Cavieres, Lohengrin] Univ Concepcion, Dept Bot, Fac Ciencias Nat & Oceanog, Concepcion, Chile; [Guzman, Daniela] Pontificia Univ Catolica Chile, Dept Ecol, Fac Ciencias Biol, Santiago, Chile; [Castro, Sergio A.] CASEB, Santiago, Chile; [Castro, Sergio A.] Univ Santiago Chile, Dept Biol, Fac Quim & Biol, Ave Alameda Libertador Bernardo OHiggins 3363, Santiago, Chile								14							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000276509400030		
J	Shan Xiujuan; Jin Xianshi; Yuan Wei								Taxonomic diversity of fish assemblages in the Changjiang Estuary and its adjacent waters								ACTA OCEANOLOGICA SINICA				29	2			70	80		10.1007/s13131-010-0024-0			MAR 2010	2010	Taxonomic diversity of fish assemblages in the Changjiang Estuary (Yangtze River Estuary) and its adjacent waters was analyzed based on bottom trawl surveys carried out by R/V Beidou in June, August and October 2006. Four groups of fishes were identified for each survey by the two-way indicator species analysis (TWIA). Taxonomic distinctness, species richness and phylogenetic diversity were used to detect changes in taxonomic structure of fish assemblages. Most dominant fish species mainly belonged to Perciformes, Pleuronectiformes, Clupeiformes, Scorpaeniformes and Tetraodontiformes. Species richness in offshore waters of the survey area was higher than that in the other area. The average taxonomic distinctness value (AvTD, Delta(+)) of each fish assemblage was close to the average taxonomic distinctness of master list in the Changjiang Estuary (79.9), and had a positive correlation with species richness and Shannon diversity index (H'). A negative correlation was found between variations in taxonomic distinctness (VarTD, Lambda(+)) and traditional diversity indices, which were caused by fish species component that led to longer average path lengths among species. Taxonomic diversity index (Delta) had the similar results with species richness, H', Simpson diversity index (D) and Pielou's evenness index (J'). VarTD also kept stable, which further certificated that fish assemblages and ecological environment were in equilibrium. Taxonomic distinctness index (Delta*) was relatively stable in most of fish assemblages, and had higher values in some fish assemblages for a few absolutely dominant species. The present study showed that fish community formed new equilibrium stability in 2006 in the Changjiang Estuary when compared with those in the corresponding months of annual survey from 1985 to 1986. And AvTD in each sampling station was lower than AvTD of master list in the Changjiang Estuary, so some ecological niches were absent in each sampling stations from taxonomic or phylogenetic relationships, these would be helpful to stock natural resource and maintain ecological equilibruim of fish assemblages.		[Shan Xiujuan; Jin Xianshi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Marine Fisheries Res, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Shan Xiujuan; Jin Xianshi; Yuan Wei] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Key Lab Fishery Resources & Ecoenvironrnent Shand, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China; [Jin Xianshi] Chinese Acad Fishery Sci, Yellow Sea Fisheries Res Inst, Minist Agr, Key Lab Sustainable Utilizat Marine Fisheries Res, Qingdao 266071, Peoples R China								9							Oceanography	WOS:000277095000009		
J	Maridet, Olivier; Costeur, Loic								Diversity trends in Neogene European ungulates and rodents: large-scale comparisons and perspectives								NATURWISSENSCHAFTEN				97	2			161	172		10.1007/s00114-009-0623-9			FEB 2010	2010	The ungulate and rodent fossil records are often used independently to understand mammalian evolutionary history. Few studies have directly compared both records over long time periods and large geographic areas. Here, we compiled two datasets of European fossil localities containing rodents and/or ungulates over 20 My (Early Miocene-Early Pliocene) and processed the data with the same methodology. We counted the raw diversity and calculated a measure of evenness (Pielou's index). After controlling for potential biases on diversity estimators, we identify the evenness index as a more reliable estimator bringing interesting insights into the way both mammal groups are structured by biotic or abiotic factors. In this study, we consider that an uneven distribution of the species richness among families, when only some families successfully diversify within the "continental-scale community", represents a lower adaptability of this community to the environmental context. Pielou's index is used to estimate this adaptability through time. The responses of ungulates and rodents to environmental changes are very divergent, especially facing the climatic changes known since the Middle Miocene. The general patterns suggest that rodent broad-scale assemblages are affected by all kinds of perturbations, even short biotic and abiotic events, but show a better adaptability when facing long-term abiotic changes. Unlike rodents, the ungulate assemblages show more stability in periods of relative environmental stability but show less adaptability to long-term climatic changes. Life-history traits of mammals can help explain patterns of diversity and biogeography at different spatial scales and may probably partly explain the opposite patterns evidenced here.		[Maridet, Olivier] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Vertebrate Paleontol & Paleoanthropol, Beijing 100044, Peoples R China; [Costeur, Loic] Nat Hist Museum Basel, CH-4001 Basel, Switzerland; [Maridet, Olivier] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Vertebrate Paleontol & Paleoanthropol, 142 Xizhimenwai Dajie,POB 643, Beijing 100044, Peoples R China								15							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000274041100005		
J	Klein, Judith C.; Verlaque, Marc								Macrophyte assemblage associated with an invasive species exhibiting temporal variability in its development pattern								HYDROBIOLOGIA				636	1			369	378		10.1007/s10750-009-9966-7			DEC 2009	2009	Many invasive species show temporal variations in abundances, such as seasonal cycles and medium to long term variations. The effects of invasive species on native assemblages have, however, mainly been investigated during the maximum abundance of the invasive species and rarely over an entire year. At the north-western limit of its distribution range in the Mediterranean Sea, the invasive marine macrophyte Caulerpa racemosa var. cylindracea shows high temporal variability in its development pattern with complete withdrawal in winter. The present study investigated the variation of the macrophyte assemblage associated with C. racemosa var. cylindracea in the bay of Marseilles (NW Mediterranean, France) over a period of one year. A comparison was made with a non-invaded assemblage at the same site. The results showed a relationship between the development of C. racemosa var. cylindracea and the structure of the macrophyte assemblage. When C. racemosa var. cylindracea was present, the associated assemblage showed significantly lower numbers of species, lower cover of native and introduced macrophytes and lower diversity (Shannon diversity index and Pielou's evenness) compared to the non-invaded assemblage. During the temporary winter withdrawal of C. racemosa var. cylindracea, an increase in the assemblage descriptors was noted; however, this period was probably not long enough to allow the recovery of a structured macrophyte assemblage comparable to the non-invaded assemblage. Other invasive macrophytes occur in the bay of Marseilles; their cover was, however, greatly reduced in the invaded assemblage, indicating strong competitive interactions between C. racemosa var. cylindracea and the other invasive species.		[Klein, Judith C.] Univ Sydney, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Res Ecol Impacts Coastal Cities, Marine Ecol Labs A11, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; [Klein, Judith C.; Verlaque, Marc] Univ Mediterranee, DIMAR, UMR 6540, Ctr Oceanol Marseille, F-13288 Marseille 9, France; [Klein, Judith C.] Univ Sydney, Sch Biol Sci, Ctr Res Ecol Impacts Coastal Cities, Marine Ecol Labs A11, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia								9							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000272029700030		
J	Izquierdo, J.; Blanco-Moreno, J. M.; Chamorro, L.; Gonzalez-Andujar, J. L.; Sans, F. X.								Spatial distribution of weed diversity within a cereal field								AGRONOMY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT				29	3			491	496		10.1051/agro/2009009			JUL-SEP 2009	2009	Weeds are key components of agroecosystems because they support biological diversity within crop fields. Ecological indicators of weed diversity are usually assessed on a field scale, but weeds are distributed unevenly within fields. Here, we explore spatial distribution of diversity in weed seed banks, and how a failure of grass weed control may affect biodiversity indicators. We studied spatial distribution and stability of species richness, Shannon's diversity index, and Pielou's evenness index of a weed seed bank, site-specifically and for the entire field, over three years in a commercial winter wheat field regularly treated with narrow-and broad-leaved herbicides. 254 soil samples were taken on 10 m x 10 m grids at the beginning of each season. Seeds were identified by germination in a greenhouse and indices were assessed for each point. The spatial structure of the indices was described by spherical isotropic semivariograms. Our findings show that diversity and evenness computed for the entire field both decreased by 63% after lack of grass weed control, and increased 32% and 31%, respectively, the following year. However, richness, diversity and evenness were not homogeneous across the field. Diversity and evenness became increasingly patchy over time, as shown by a spatial dependence increasing by 21% and 40%, respectively, after two years. This finding is related to the reduction in the patch extension of broad-leaved species due to broad-leaved herbicide application each year and the expansion of grass patches due to the lack of grass control in the first year. Spatial location of patches was not stable over time. Nevertheless, weedy areas remained on the field and represent plant diversity caches that may contribute to maintaining global biodiversity. This information is missed if a single biodiversity index is computed for the entire field. Knowledge of spatial distribution of weed diversity within a field will be useful for identifying wildlife conservation areas and understanding changes in biodiversity in cropland ecosystems better.		[Izquierdo, J.] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Dept Engn Agroalimentaria & Biotecnol, Castelldefels 08860, Catalunya, Spain; [Blanco-Moreno, J. M.; Chamorro, L.; Sans, F. X.] Univ Barcelona, Dept Biol Vegetal, E-08028 Barcelona, Catalunya, Spain; [Gonzalez-Andujar, J. L.] Inst Agr Sostenible, Dept Protecc Cultivos, Cordoba 14080, Spain; [Izquierdo, J.] Univ Politecn Cataluna, Dept Engn Agroalimentaria & Biotecnol, Campus Baix Llobregat,Av Canal Olimp S-N, Castelldefels 08860, Catalunya, Spain								18							Agronomy; Green & Sustainable Science & Technology	WOS:000267600500008		
J	Grzes, Irena M.								Ant species richness and evenness increase along a metal pollution gradient in the Boleslaw zinc smelter area								PEDOBIOLOGIA				53	1			65	73		10.1016/j.pedobi.2009.03.002			2009	2009	Ants are considered to be relatively resistant to metal pollution, but the effect of metal toxicity on ant communities is poorly understood. This work examined the relationship between ant species diversity and heavy metal pollution at 16 meadow and forest sites along a metal contamination gradient in a mining and smelting region near Olkusz, Poland. Menhinick's index was used to estimate species richness. Pielou's index of evenness (J), Simpson's index of diversity (D) and the slopes of rank-abundance curves were used to estimate of species evenness. Regardless of species composition differences between forest and meadow, the increase in species diversity with increasing metal. pollution was very clear in both ecosystems. The more polluted the site, the more species were detected and the more similar in relative abundance they were. Consequently, the extent to which one or a few species dominated a community decreased. This result can be explained by indirect effects of metal pollution, that is, changes in species interactions rather than by changes in abiotic conditions. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		Jagiellonian Univ, Inst Environm Sci, Ecotoxicol & Stress Ecol Res Grp, PL-30387 Krakow, Poland; [Grzes, Irena M.] Jagiellonian Univ, Inst Environm Sci, Ecotoxicol & Stress Ecol Res Grp, Gronostajowa 7, PL-30387 Krakow, Poland								37							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000270960100006		
J	Fadeeva, Natalia P.; Maslennikov, Sergei I.								The abundance and distribution of free-living marine nematodes of the Piltun-Astokhskoye oil and gas field (North-East Sakhalin)								RUSSIAN JOURNAL OF NEMATOLOGY				17	1			31	42					2009	2009	Although offshore oil and gas production platforms are a potential source for a number of toxic compounds, their impact on the meiofauna is insufficiently studied. In the vicinity of the oil and gas production platform MOLIKPAQ (North-East Sakhalin, the Sea of Okhotsk), the relative abundance of meiofauna assemblages ranged from 23.5 to 406.0 ind. 10 cm(-2). The dominant group, nematodes, ranged from 6 to 385 ind. 10 cm(-2). The maximum nematode density was at the distance of 250 in from the platform coupled with the highest petroleum hydrocarbons concentration (6.52 mg g(-1)) and the lowest values of the Shannon-Wiener diversity and Pielou's evenness indices (1.25 and 0.33, respectively). In total, 69 nematode species were found. Disturbance in the structure of nematocenes, decrease of number species, drop of biological diversity indices, as well as increase in dominance of some nematode species of occurred in response to the introduction of PHCs as a stress factor. CLUSTER, MDS and SIMPER analyses clearly distinguished site groupings related to the different concentrations of PHC and sediment granulometry. The significant differences of nematode assemblages occurred in the response to the appearance of even low-level PHC contamination sediment. These results suggest that nematode assemblages can be used to detect non-catastrophic levels of oil contamination.		[Fadeeva, Natalia P.] Far Eastern Natl Univ, Dept Ecol Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Vladivostok 690600, Russia; [Maslennikov, Sergei I.] Russian Acad Sci, Far Eastern Branch, Inst Marine Biol, Vladivostok 690041, Russia; [Fadeeva, Natalia P.] Far Eastern Natl Univ, Dept Ecol Marine Biol & Biotechnol, Vladivostok 690600, Russia								1							Zoology	WOS:000270602400004		
J	Shou, Lu; Huang, Yijun; Zeng, Jiangning; Gao, Aigen; Liao, Yibo; Chen, Quanzhen								Seasonal changes of macrobenthos distribution and diversity in Zhoushan sea area								AQUATIC ECOSYSTEM HEALTH & MANAGEMENT				12	1			110	115	PII 908927212	10.1080/14634980802697902			2009	2009	To understand the distribution and seasonal changes of macrobenthos in Zhoushan sea area, two cruise surveys were carried out in the summer and winter. A total of 219 species were recorded in the sampling sediment during the two seasons. Two-way ANOVA results showed that the differences were not significant among sections in all the community parameters (species number, biomass and density) and species diversity (Shannon-Weiner index and Pielou's evenness index), but significant between seasons in species number, density and Shannon-Weiner index. This might be influenced by two factors as follows: (1) water currents' differences between seasons; (2) considerable differences in temperature between seasons.		[Shou, Lu; Huang, Yijun; Zeng, Jiangning; Gao, Aigen; Liao, Yibo; Chen, Quanzhen] State Ocean Adm, Inst Oceanog 2, Lab Marine Ecosyst & Biogeochem, Hangzhou 310012, Zhejiang, Peoples R China; [Shou, Lu] State Ocean Adm, Inst Oceanog 2, Lab Marine Ecosyst & Biogeochem, Hangzhou 310012, Zhejiang, Peoples R China				Conference on State of Lake Huron - Ecosystem Change, Habitat and Management	OCT, 2006		Ontario, CANADA	22							Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000263642400012		
J	Shi, J. P.; Zhu, H.								Tree species composition and diversity of tropical mountain cloud forest in the Yunnan, southwestern China								ECOLOGICAL RESEARCH				24	1			83	92		10.1007/s11284-008-0484-2			JAN 2009	2009	Species composition, physiognomy, and plant diversity of the less known cloud forests in Yunnan were studied based on data collected from 35 sample plots at seven sites. In floristic composition, the cloud forests are mainly comprised of Fagaceae, Ericaceae, Vacciniaceae, Aceraceae, Magnoliaceae, Theaceae, Aquifoliaceae, Illiciaceae, Lauraceae, and Rosaceae. Physiognomically, the forests are dominated by tree and shrub species. Lianas are rare in the forests. The plants with microphyllous or nanophyllous leaves comprise 44.32-63.46% of the total species, and plants with an entire leaf margin account for more than 50% of the tree and shrub species. There are few tree and shrub species with a drip tip leaf apex and papery leaves. Evergreen species make up more than 75% of the total tree and shrub species. In a 2,500 m(2) sampling area, the number of vascular species ranged between 57 and 110; Simpson's diversity index ranged from 0.7719 to 0.9544, Shannon-Winner's diversity index from 1.8251 to 3.2905, and Pielou's evenness index from 0.5836 to 0.8982 for trees. The cloud forests in Yunnan are physiognomically similar to the tropical cloud forests in America and Southeast Asia. They very much resemble the mountain dwarf mossy forest in Hainan Island, southeastern China, and the Mountain ericaceous forests in the Malay Peninsula. The cloud forests in Yunnan are considered to be developed, as are the tropical upper montane cloud forests in Asia.		[Shi, J. P.; Zhu, H.] Chinese Acad Sci, Xishuangbanna Trop Bot Garden, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China; [Shi, J. P.] Chinese Acad Sci, Grad Sch, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, H.] Chinese Acad Sci, Xishuangbanna Trop Bot Garden, Xue Fu Rd 88, Kunming 650223, Yunnan, Peoples R China								19							Ecology	WOS:000261956100010		
J	Wells, R. J. David; Cowan, James H., Jr.; Patterson, William F., III								Habitat use and the effect of shrimp trawling on fish and invertebrate communities over the northern Gulf of Mexico continental shelf								ICES JOURNAL OF MARINE SCIENCE				65	9			1610	1619		10.1093/icesjms/fsn145			DEC 2008	2008	The goals of this study were to characterize habitat-specific fish and invertebrate community structure over sand, shell-rubble, and natural reef substrata, and to assess the effects of trawling on the sand and shell-rubble habitats and their associated communities during quarterly trawl surveys over a 2-year period. Fish and invertebrate communities differed significantly among habitat types [analysis of similarities (ANOSIM); Global R = 0.436, p < 0.001), and with respect to trawling exposure (ANOSIM; Global R = 0.128, p < 0.001). Habitat characteristics were quantified from video transects sampled with a remotely operated vehicle, and included percentage coverage of tubeworms, bryozoans, anemones, corals, and algae, significantly affecting fish community structure. Diversity indices differed among habitats, with the highest Shannon diversity (H') and Pielou's evenness (J') over shell-rubble, specifically non-trawled shell-rubble. In addition, higher values of H' and J' were found over trawled sand relative to non-trawled sand habitats. Length frequency distributions of several abundant fish species showed truncated size distributions over trawled and non-trawled habitats and were both habitat- and species-specific. The study describes habitat-specific differences in community structure, highlighting the differences between trawled and non-trawled areas on the northern Gulf of Mexico continental shelf.		[Wells, R. J. David; Cowan, James H., Jr.] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Oceanog & Coastal Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Patterson, William F., III] Univ W Florida, Dept Biol, Pensacola, FL 32514 USA; [Wells, R. J. David] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Oceanog & Coastal Sci, Energy Coast & Environm Bldg, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA								15							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000261459500008		
J	Cardoso, I.; Granadeiro, J. P.; Cabral, H.								Benthic prey quantity and quality in the main mudflat feeding areas of the Tagus Estuary: Implications for bird and fish populations								CIENCIAS MARINAS				34	3			283	296		10.7773/cm.v34i3.1392			SEP 2008	2008	Estuaries are among the most productive environments in the coastal zone that may act as sink of pollutants. In this study we evaluated how levels of heavy metal contamination can be reflected in the macro invertebrate communities of six Tagus Estuary mudflats, inferring their consequences to upper trophic levels. We used Shannon-Wiener's diversity, Pielou's evenness and Simpson's dominance indices, and macroinvertebrate densities to characterize benthic Communities at the sites that presented different metal contamination loads. Those stations with high levels of contamination presented a lower diversity but also the highest prey density. This study indicated that unhealthy areas can still perform their ecosystem function with costs that remain to be evaluated. The biodiversity can be impoverished compared with other less contaminated sites, but with regard to their utilization as feeding areas by birds and fishes this is not a limiting factor. For this particular function of the mudflats, prey availability is the main characteristic determining the choice of one particular site as a bird and fish feeding area that may not be affected by heavy metal contamination.		[Cardoso, I.; Cabral, H.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias, Inst Oceanog, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal; [Granadeiro, J. P.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Biol Ambiental, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal; [Cardoso, I.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias, Inst Oceanog, Campo Grande, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal								11							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000260312600003		
J	Albayrak, Serhat; Balkis, Huesamettin; Cinar, Melih Ertan								Shallow-water soft bottom macrozoobenthic communities from edremit bay (NE Aegean Sea)								BELGIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				137	2			127	132					JUL 2007	2007	Qualitative and quantitative aspects of macrozoobenthic fauna in Edremit Bay were studied. Benthic samples were collected from 20 stations at depths ranging from 1 to 30m in October 2002. Salinity of sea water varied between 35.3 and 38.6psu, temperature between 18.8 and 21.6 degrees C, dissolved oxygen between 2.6 and 8.9mg/l, and silt-clay percentage of sediment between 1.6 and 94. 1. A total of 139 macrozoobenthic taxa were identified, of which Polychaeta was the dominant group (44.6% of species, 42.7% of specimens). Shannon -Weaver's Diversity Index (H'), Pielou's Evenness Index (P), Soyer's Frequency Index (F), Bray-Curtis similarity measure and Spearman's rank correlation coefficient were applied to the presence and abundance of the benthic fauna. Medium diversity index values (between 2.7 and 4.8) but high evenness index values (between 0.75 and 0.98) were determined in the area. The cluster and nMDS analysis showed that there were 6 distinct species assemblages in the area. A positive correlation was determined between silt-clay percentage, and number of individuals, number of species and diversity index value. The number of specimen is also positively correlated with depth.		Istanbul Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Istanbul, Turkey; Ege Univ, Fac Fisheries, Dept Hydrobiol, TR-35100 Izmir, Turkey; [Albayrak, Serhat] Istanbul Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, 34134 Vezneciler, Istanbul, Turkey								12							Zoology	WOS:000250305900001		
J	Lewis, Michael; Jordan, Stephen; Chancy, Cynthia; Harwell, Linda; Goodman, Larry; Quarles, Robert								Summer fish community of the coastal northern Gulf of Mexico: Characterization of a large-scale trawl survey								TRANSACTIONS OF THE AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY				136	3			829	845		10.1577/T06-077.1			MAY 2007	2007	Fish were collected by otter trawl at 367 sites from 119 coastal water bodies in the northern Gulf of Mexico, ranging from north-central Florida to the Rio Grande, Texas, during the summer months of 1992-1994. The fish were identified and enumerated, and tissue contaminants (in fillets), and external abnormalities (body, buccal, branchial, and ocular) were determined. Results were compared for sites east and weft of the Mississippi River, within the Mississippi River, seven estuarine categories, and over 3 years. Approximately 31,000 individual fish were captured, representing 100 genera and 141 species. Thirteen species comprised 91 % of the total abundance; abundances of 128 species were 1% or less. Pinfish Lagodon rhomboides, Atlantic croaker Micropogonias undulatus, Gulf menhaden Brevoortia patronus, and bay anchovy Anchoa mitchilli were the more dominant species. Fourteen species were collected from at least 10% of the sites; 85 species were captured at no more than 1% of the sites. Atlantic croakers and hardhead catfish Ariopsis felis were collected more frequently (>50% of sites). Indices of community structure from the full data set ranged as follows: 2.8 for the Shannon-Wiener index, 0.90 for Simpson's index, and 0.56 for Pielou's evenness index. Chemical contaminants (predominantly total mercury and polychlorinated biphenyls [PCBs]) exceeded federal risk-based consumption guidelines in 2.7% of fillets from four species. External abnormalities occurred on 17 species and approximately 1% of the total number of fish examined. Community structural properties varied temporally across years and spatially over estuarine categories and between areas east and west of the Mississippi River. Four distinct assemblages were identified by cluster analysis of species abundance. Cluster membership was associated with salinity, depth, dissolved oxygen, water clarity, and geographic area.		US EPA, Off Res & Dev, Gulf Breeze, FL 32561 USA; [Lewis, Michael] US EPA, Off Res & Dev, 1 Sabine Isl Dr, Gulf Breeze, FL 32561 USA								12							Fisheries	WOS:000246992600021		
J	Santos, Sonia A. P.; Cabanas, Jose Eduardo; Pereira, Jose Alberto								Abundance and diversity of soil arthropods in olive grove ecosystem (Portugal): Effect of pitfall trap type								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY				43	2			77	83		10.1016/j.ejsobi.2006.10.001			MAR-APR 2007	2007	Soil arthropod biodiversity is an indicator of soil quality and can be studied using pitfall trapping. In this research, olive grove edaphic fauna was assessed at different sampling dates by comparing two different diameters (7 and 9 cm) and three different contents (empty, water and preservative) of pitfall traps in order to determine which type of pitfall trap is more efficient. Considering all pitfall trap types and sampling times, a total of 12,937 individual edaphic arthropods belonging to I I taxa were recovered. Smaller traps with preservative collected significantly more individuals than the other pitfalls tested. Larger and empty traps collected Significantly more spiders and traps with preservative collected more beetles. Smaller and empty traps collected fewer individuals than the other trap types. Both Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness indexes were higher in the larger and empty traps and richness was higher in the smaller traps filled with water. The study of myrmecocenosis was emphasised because olive grove soil fauna was numerically dominated by Formicidae (56.6% of all organisms captured) belonging to 12 genera and 24 species; Tapinoma nigerrimum, Messor barbarus, Cataglyphis hispanicus, Tetramorium semilaeve, Cataglyphis ibericus, Messor bouvieri and Camponotus cruentatus were the most abundant ant species. Traps with preservative reached the highest accumulation of species for a small number of pitfalls when compared with the other pitfalls studied and a sampling effort of 20 samples is apparently sufficient to sample the greater part of the ant species of the olive grove. From this study, it seems that traps with preservative are the best choice to use in further studies concerning the epiedaphic fauna of the olive grove. (c) 2006 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.		Inst Politecn Braganca, CIMO Escola Super Agraria, P-5301855 Braganca, Portugal; [Santos, Sonia A. P.] Inst Politecn Braganca, CIMO Escola Super Agraria, Apt 1172, P-5301855 Braganca, Portugal								60							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000245672700002		
J	Stasinos, Konstantinos; Neofitou, Christos; Pantazis, Panagiotis; Psilovikos, Aris; Neofitou, Nikos; Lolas, Petros								Ecohydrological gradients affecting the abundance and biodiversity of macro-invertebrates in the estuarine system of Sperchios River, Central Greece								FRESENIUS ENVIRONMENTAL BULLETIN				16	9A			1030	1042					2007	2007	The factors affecting the abundance and biodiversity of the macro- invertebrates in relation to the quality of substrate and vegetation of the estuarine system of Sperchios River, Central Greece, were examined. The reason why only the two specific seasons of winter and summer were chosen is because extreme weather phenomena take place during both seasons that affect the factors of abundance and biodiversity. Of the nine identified taxa, the main contributor to macro-invertebrate abundance in August 2001 was Hediste diversicolor, while Cerastoderma glaucum was the principal one in January 2002. The Spearman coefficient showed a positive correlation of biomass (A') with water temperature (0.39) in January, the concentration of nitrates (0.69), the clay (0.66), and the organic matter of the sediment (0.47-0.53). A positive correlation (Spearman) has also been shown between biodiversity, the percentage of sand in the sediment, and the concentrations of ammonia and nitrates. As species abundance (A) has been positively correlated (Spearman coefficient = 0.21-0.72) with sediment organic matter, vegetation in the lower inter-tidal zone seems to have affected A positively. The analyses of the used indices (A, A', Margalef, Shannon-Wiener, Pielou's evenness, Sorensen similarity) indicated a negative influence on the diversity of benthic macroinvertebrates, and a possibly causal relationship between agricultural wastes drained to the estuarine Sperchios system and its sediment quality.		Univ Thessaly, Sch Agr Sci, Dept Ichthyol & Aquat Environm, Lab Ichthyol Hydrobiol, Nea Ionia Magnissias 38446, Greece; Univ Thessaly, Fac Vet Sci, Kardhitsa 43100, Greece; Univ Thessaly, Sch Agr Sci, Dept Agr Plant Prod & Agr Environm, Lab Weed Sci & Control, Nea Ionia Magnissias 38446, Greece; [Neofitou, Christos] Univ Thessaly, Sch Agr Sci, Dept Ichthyol & Aquat Environm, Lab Ichthyol Hydrobiol, Fytokou Str, Nea Ionia Magnissias 38446, Greece								1							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000249956600007		
J	Gollner, Sabine; Zekely, Julia; Govenar, Breea; Le Bris, Nadine; Nemeschkal, Hans L.; Fisher, Charles R.; Bright, Monika								Tubeworm-associated permanent meiobenthic communities from two chemically different hydrothermal vent sites on the East Pacific Rise								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				337				39	49		10.3354/meps337039			2007	2007	The permanent meiobenthic community associated with aggregations of the tubeworm Riftia pachyptila was characterized at 2 different hydrothermal vent sites, Tica and Riftia Field, on the East Pacific Rise near 9 degrees 50'N. The maximum effluent temperatures were similar at both sites, but the chemistry of the hydrothermal fluids differed between sites. The abundance of meiobenthos was very low in 5 out of 6 samples (<61 ind. 10 cm(-2)) and was higher at Tica (20 to 976 ind. 10 cm(-2)) than at Riftia Field (< 1 to 12 ind. 10 cm(-2)). Meiobenthos abundance was positively correlated with the volume of sediment within the tubeworm aggregations. Sediment consisted mainly of particulate organic material and contained only a few mineral grains. A total of 33 meiobenthic species (15 of them new to science) was identified, comprising nematodes, copepods, ostracods, tanaidaceans, and foraminiferans. The meiobenthic fauna contributed a third to the total species richness in the benthic community associated with these tubeworm aggregations. There were 19 meiobenthic species shared between the 2 sites. The majority of meiobenthic species were first-order primary consumers. The most abundant taxa were nematodes and copepods, and other taxa were rare at both sites. Nematodes numerically dominated the community at Tica, while no clear dominance of a higher taxon could be detected at Riftia Field. Species richness was similar at both sites, whereas Shannon-Wiener diversity index and Pielou's evenness index were higher at Riftia Field. Due to the differences in the relative abundance of some species and unique occurrence of others at each site, the meiobenthic communities from the 2 different sites had an average Bray-Curtis dissimilarity of almost 70%.		Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Penn State Univ, Dept Biol, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; IFREMER, Ctr Brest, Dept Environm Profond, F-29280 Plouzane, France; Univ Vienna, Dept Theoret Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Woods Hole Oceanog Inst, Dept Biol, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA; [Gollner, Sabine] Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, Althanstrasse 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria								37							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000247105100004		
J	Cusson, Mathieu; Archambault, Philippe; Aitken, Alec								Biodiversity of benthic assemblages on the Arctic continental shelf: historical data from Canada								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				331				291	304		10.3354/meps331291			2007	2007	This study describes patterns of abundance, diversity, and assemblages of benthic macrofauna within the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. A review of data reports and the published literature yielded 219 stations and 947 taxa from 7 sources in various regions of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago (i.e. Beaufort Sea and Mackenzie Shelf, Victoria Island, Hudson and James Bays, Frobisher Bay, Ungava Bay, and Southern Davis Strait). In general, we observed that eastern regions of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago showed greater values of species richness (or a diversity) than the western and central regions, whereas no specific patterns were observed for Shannon-Wiener's diversity (H') and Pielou's evenness (J') indices. The Beaufort Sea and Mackenzie Shelf region exhibited high values of taxonomic distinctness (Delta(+)), whereas Hudson Bay showed low values. However, the Hudson Bay region showed high values of turnover (beta(W)) diversity. A non-metric multi-dimensional scaling plot of similarity (Bray-Curtis index) and analysis of similarity revealed that species composition differed among regions, even those located in close proximity to one another. These investigations were conducted at different levels of taxonomic resolution (Species, Order, Class and Phyla) and the results demonstrated that most patterns were maintained up to the Order and Class level. A relatively small number of taxa, mainly annelids, were responsible for most of the dissimilarity among regions. Bottom salinity and temperature were the most important environmental variables (among depth of site, bottom temperature, salinity, physical and chemical sediment characteristics) for determining these assemblage patterns. Multiple regression analyses also demonstrated that variance in species richness and diversity (H') was best explained by variance in salinity (55 and 43% respectively). The analysis of a time series from Frobisher Bay revealed that the temporal (mo/yr-scale) variability of assemblages was of the same order as the spatial (km-scale) variability among sites.		Inst Maurice Lamontagne, Mont Joli, PQ G5H 3Z4, Canada; Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Geog, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5A5, Canada; [Archambault, Philippe] Univ Quebec, ISMER, 310 Allee Ursulines, Rimouski, PQ G5L 3A1, Canada								49							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000244872400024		
J	Jayalakshmy, K. V.; Rao, K. Kameswara								Aspects of the biodiversity of brackish water foraminifera								ENVIRONMENTAL FORENSICS				7	4			353	367		10.1080/15275920600996370			DEC 2006	2006	Foraminiferal fauna of the Chilka lake situated between 19 degrees 25' and 19 degrees 54' N and 85 degrees 6' and 85 degrees 38' E in Orissa state on the east coast of India during different seasons was studied using Pielou's, Simpson's, Margalef' s, Shannon - Wiener's, and Heip's evenness indices of diversity. Mean diversity levels were low during the postmonsoon period ( November) when there is heavy rainfall followed by the diluting effects of the river systems of the area; however, levels were high during the premonsoon season ( March and May) due to prevalence of marine conditions in the lake. Furthermore, the evaluation of different sectors in the study area showed somewhat poor diversity within the lagoon and rich diversity in the outer channel, the fauna of which was similar to the nearshore foraminiferids of Bay of Bengal. The spatial pattern of species diversity was predictable and was related to environmental features of the areas in the lake. Regarding the spatial community structure, outer channel showed highly stable environment due to its proximity to the sea whereas northern sector showed highly fluctuating environment being away from the oceanic region and highly affected by variations in the salinity. Seasonal comparison showed postmonsoon season as the most consistent period, whereas early premonsoon was the least consistent period. Bray-Curtis group linkage cluster analysis showed that none of the clusters of foraminiferal species present during post-monsoon occurred during pre-monsoon. In contrast to this observation, approximately 30% of the species were always clustered together during early premonsoon and late premonsoon, indicating the possibility of succession of species during November. An interesting observation was that a species replacement takes place in the case of foraminiferal fauna over a seasonal cycle. This finding could be an indication of the seasonality of this community through species succession.		Natl Inst Oceanog, Reg Ctr, Cochin 682014, Kerala, India; [Jayalakshmy, K. V.] Natl Inst Oceanog, Reg Ctr, Cochin 682014, Kerala, India								5							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000242558400008		
J	Gosselin, Ferderic								An assessment of the dependence of evenness indices on species richness								JOURNAL OF THEORETICAL BIOLOGY				242	3			591	597		10.1016/j.jtbi.2006.04.017			OCT 7 2006	2006	Evenness is the component of species diversity that was built to be mathematically independent from species richness. Yet, earlier work questioned the generality of this independence. However, this earlier work involved only a few relative abundance distributions (RADs), very limited gradients of species richness, or evenness indices, such as Pielou's index, that were not defined in relation to a precise, coherent set of axioms. We show that for very different theoretical RADs, a relationship between evenness indices and species richness does exist and is strong-at least for some RADs and/or when species richness is under 20. Furthermore, this relationship is mostly negative, which contradicts some previous studies. We also show that, for the very uneven RADs we tested, evenness indices depend even more on species richness than diversity indices do. Finally, we discuss the philosophy behind the analysis of evenness-richness relationships within and between RADs, as well as the interest of correcting evenness indices for species richness when species richness varies, especially with many values under 20. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Cenagref, URE Ecosyst Forestiers, F-45290 Nogent Sur Marne, France; [Gosselin, Ferderic] Cenagref, URE Ecosyst Forestiers, F-45290 Nogent Sur Marne, France								48							Biology; Mathematical & Computational Biology	WOS:000240947400006		
J	Kulfan, Miroslav; Holecova, Milada; Fajcik, Jaroslav								Caterpillar (Lepidoptera) communities on European turkey oak (<i>Quercus cerris</i>) in Male Karpaty Mts (SW Slovakia)								BIOLOGIA				61	5			573	578		10.2478/s11756-006-0092-y			SEP 2006	2006	Between 2000-2002, the structure of communities of lepidopteran larvae was studied in leaf bearing crowns of Quercus cerris in the central and northern part of the Male Karpaty Mts (SW Slovakia). Caterpillars were collected using the beating method in four study plots. In total, 58 species were found. The families Geometridae, Noctuidae and Tortricidae comprised the highest number of species found. The family Geometridae comprised the highest number of pests. The most abundant species for individual plots were Lymantria dispar, Operophtera brumata, Ypsolopha alpella and Cyclophora ruficiliaria. Most of the recorded species belonged to the trophic group of generalists (39 species). Shannon-Wiener's diversity index and Pielou's equitability (evenness) value indicated there were marked differences between the Horny haj study plot (an insular forest with ants as the predators of caterpillars) and other plots. The main ecological gradient along DCA-1 related to the host specificity of caterpillars and consisted of three groups: (a) polyphagous species; (b) specialist species feeding chiefly on oaks or exclusively on oaks and (c) species preferring some oak species, mainly Q. cerris. The fragmentation of growth was identified along DCA-2.		Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Zool, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia; [Kulfan, Miroslav] Comenius Univ, Fac Nat Sci, Dept Zool, Mlynska Dolina B-1, SK-84215 Bratislava, Slovakia								4							Biology	WOS:000243710100017		
J	Cinar, Melih Ertan; Katagan, Tuncer; Ozturk, Bilal; Egemen, Ozdemir; Ergen, Zeki; Kocatas, Ahmet; Onen, Mesut; Kirkim, Fevzi; Bakir, Kerem; Kurt, Guley; Dagli, Ertan; Kaymakci, Asli; Acik, Sermin; Dogan, Alper; Ozcan, Tahir								Temporal changes of soft-bottom zoobenthic communities in and around Alsancak Harbor (Izmir Bay, Aegean Sea), with special attention to the autecology of exotic species								MARINE ECOLOGY-AN EVOLUTIONARY PERSPECTIVE				27	3			229	246		10.1111/j.1439-0485.2006.00102.x			SEP 2006	2006	Temporal and spatial variation in soft-bottom benthic communities following recovery from a pollution episode were studied between January and September 2004 in and around Alsancak Harbor, located in the polluted part of Izmir Bay (Aegean Sea, eastern Mediterranean). Samples were collected at seven stations by van Veen grab. Three additional stations were sampled by means of a beam trawl to take into account large mobile animals and for a better estimate of the local biodiversity. A total of 231 species belonging to 10 zoobenthic groups were found. Polychaetes contributed 90% of the total faunal populations and mollusks 87% of the total biomass in the area. Community parameters varied significantly among stations and sampling periods; number of species ranged from 2 to 79 per 0.1 m(2) grab sample; density from 20 to 81,720 ind(.)m(-2); biomass from 0.1 to 4190 g(.)m(-2); Shannon-Wiener diversity index (log(2) base) from 0.4 to 4.4; and Pielou's evenness index from 0.11 to 1.0. Collections indicate that a number of species, including those sensitive to pollution, have colonized the area where azoic conditions had been previously reported. A total of six exotic species, Streblospio gynobranchiata, Polydora cornuta, Hydroides dianthus, Hydroides elegans, Anadara demiri and Fulvia fragilis, probably transferred to the area via ballast water or hull fouling, dominated soft or hard substrata in and near Alsancak Harbor. The first two species accounted for more than 70% of the total population in the area, while A. demiri contributed the most to the biomass (93%, at station 7).		Ege Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Fisheries, TR-35100 Izmir, Turkey; [Cinar, Melih Ertan] Ege Univ, Dept Hydrobiol, Fac Fisheries, TR-35100 Izmir, Turkey								97							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000240963300005		
J	Kuklinski, P.; Barnes, D. K. A.; Taylor, P. D.								Latitudinal patterns of diversity and abundance in North Atlantic intertidal boulder-fields								MARINE BIOLOGY				149	6			1577	1583		10.1007/s00227-006-0311-7			SEP 2006	2006	In order to study taxon richness, biodiversity and abundance patterns in the North Atlantic from temperate latitudes through Arctic to high Arctic latitudes, we recorded the faunas (at ELWS level) colonizing 20 cobbles from three sites at each of seven boulder-field localities (south-west England, 50 degrees N; Wales, 51 degrees N; west Scotland, 56 degrees N; Iceland, 64 degrees N; Tromso, 70 degrees N; Svalbard, 77 degrees N, 79 degrees N). Inverse correlations were found between latitude and all measures of richness (species, orders, and phyla numbers) and biodiversity (S-W, P). However, these correlations were driven mostly by the consistently impoverished Arctic sites; an even cline of decreasing diversity from south to north did not exist. Multidimensional scaling revealed two communities, temperate-subarctic species-rich and high arctic species-poor. Evenness as measured by Pielou's index was similar across all latitudes. Abundance data exhibited a similar trend to the species richness and diversity data with a significant negative correlation with latitude, but when Arctic data were excluded the correlation vanished.		Nat Hist Museum, London SW7 5BD, England; Polish Acad Sci, Inst Oceanol, PL-81712 Sopot, Poland; British Antarctic Survey, NERC, Cambridge CB3 0ET, England; [Kuklinski, P.] Nat Hist Museum, Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, England								22							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000241112500028		
J	Ferreira, Veronica; Elosegi, Arturo; Gulis, Vladislav; Pozo, Jesus; Graca, Manuel A. S.								Eucalyptus plantations affect fungal communities associated with leaf-litter decomposition in Iberian streams								ARCHIV FUR HYDROBIOLOGIE				166	4			467	490		10.1127/0003-9136/2006/0166-0467			AUG 2006	2006	The replacement of diverse deciduous forests by eucalyptus plantations changes the timing, quality and quantity of litter inputs to streams, which has the potential to affect the activity of decomposers and thus ecosystem functioning. Here, we compared (a) the decomposition rate of alder and oak leaves incubated in deciduous and eucalyptus streams in Spain and Portugal, (b) the activity (fungal biomass and sporulation) and diversity (species richness and Pielou's evenness index) of the associated fungal communities and (c) changes in N and P content of leaves. Alder and oak leaves decomposed at similar rates in both stream types and countries, with the exception of oak leaves in the Spanish eucalyptus stream, which decomposed faster than in the corresponding deciduous stream or in the Portuguese eucalyptus stream. This difference was attributed to physical fragmentation due to flooding and not to forest cover. Higher nitrogen and phosphorus content and higher fungal biomass and sporulation were generally found on leaves from eucalyptus rather than from deciduous streams. The higher fungal activity in eucalyptus streams was attributed to higher water temperature and benthic organic matter storage. The Spanish eucalyptus stream had higher species richness of aquatic hyphomycetes than the deciduous one (27 vs. 20) while in Portugal the opposite was true (16 vs. 20). Fungal community evenness was significantly higher on alder leaves in eucalyptus than in deciduous streams. The community structure (MDS analysis) discriminated both stream types in Portugal much better than it did in Spain. At least for Portugal, differences between stream types can be explained by higher litter diversity in deciduous than in eucalyptus streams. In conclusion, stream fungal communities in Portugal were more affected by eucalyptus plantations than in Spain. In both countries, fungal diversity and activity were more affected by eucalyptus plantations than decomposition rates of submerged litter. We suggest therefore that, to mitigate the effect of eucalyptus plantations, deciduous trees could be planted on the river banks or, preferably, riparian strips of native vegetation should be left unmodified.		Univ Coimbra, Dept Zool, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal; Univ Coimbra, IMAR, CIC, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal; UPV, EHU, Fac Ciencia & Tecnol, Dept Biol Vegetal & Ecol, Bilbao 48080, Spain; Univ Alabama, Dept Sci Biol, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487 USA; [Ferreira, Veronica] Univ Coimbra, Dept Zool, Largo Marques Pombal, P-3004517 Coimbra, Portugal								72							Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000240388200003		
J	Gollner, Sabine; Zekely, Julia; Van Dover, Cindy Lee; Govenar, Breea; Le Bris, Nadine; Nemeschkal, Hans Leo; Bright, Monika								Benthic copepod communities associated with tubeworm and mussel aggregations on the East Pacific Rise								CAHIERS DE BIOLOGIE MARINE				47	4			397	402					2006	2006	Variability in the structure of the meiobenthic copepod communities was studied among three vent sites on the East Pacific Rise. One of the sites was dominated by the mussel Bathymodiolus thermophilus, and the other two of the sites were dominated by the tubeworm Riftia pachyptila. In addition to the differences in the dominant megafauna, the maximum temperatures were much lower at the mussel-dominated sites, and the temperature to sulfide ratio was different between the tubeworm-dominated sites. A total of 22 vent endemic siphonostomatoid copepod species and 5 harpacticoid copepod species were identified among the three sites. Copepod abundance was low at all sites (< 1 - 31 ind. 10 cm(-2)). Species richness ranged from 6 - 14, Shannon-Wiener diversity indices from 1.3 - 2.3, and Pielou's evenness indices between 0.6 - 0.9 were found. Differences were detected in abundance and Shannon-Wiener diversity between the mussel site and one tubeworm site. Multivariate analyses pointed to a relative homogenous mussel bed community and a heterogenous tubeworm community. The majority of species were primary consumers feeding on detritus. Both copepod sexes and, for the first time, all copepodite stages were detected in the samples.		Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; Coll William & Mary, Dept Biol, Williamsburg, VA 23187 USA; Woods Hole Oceanog Inst, Dept Biol, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA; IFREMER, Ctr Brest, Dept Etude Ecosyst Profonds, F-29280 Plouzane, France; Univ Vienna, Dept Theoret Biol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Gollner, Sabine] Univ Vienna, Dept Marine Biol, Althanstr 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria				3rd International Symposium on Hydrothermal Vent and Seep Biology	SEP 12-16, 2006	Natl Sci Fdn; Ridge 2000 Program; Scripps Inst Oceanog; Census Marine Life; NOAA Undersea Res Program; Minerals Management Serv; NOAAs Off Ocean Explorat; InterRidge; New EnglandBiolabs	La Jolla, CA	30							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000243751300011		
J	Das, Surajit; Lyla, P. S.; Khan, S. Ajmal								Present status and the application of statistical tools in marine microbial biodiversity								NATIONAL ACADEMY SCIENCE LETTERS-INDIA				29	5-6			147	158					2006	2006	Microbial biodiversity prediction call be made using statistical approaches that are routinely used in the ecological studies. Both rarefaction and richness estimators may be applied to microbial data sets for nonparametric estimators in predicting and comparing bacterial species number. The species richness is estimated by the univariate method which includes indices as Simpson Index, reciprocal of Simpson's Index, rarefaction index, non parametric model and in graphical technique the 95% confidence interval. To estimate the species diversity and evenness, Shannon Wiener index and Pielou's evenness are used respectively. Apart from these, Hill numbers, Arrhenius relationship, K-dominance. Curve, F-statistic and Jaccard's Index of similarity can be used as univariate methods. hi the multivariate approach. Multi Dimensional Scaling (MDS) and Index of Multivariate Dispersion (IMD) are used to analyze the variability. Analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) is also applied to the similarity matrix underlying the ordination or classification of samples.		Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India; [Das, Surajit] Annamalai Univ, Ctr Adv Study Marine Biol, Parangipettai 608502, Tamil Nadu, India				1st Regional Conference on Biodiversity Conservation in Asia - Current Status and Future Perspectives	NOV 17-20, 2005	Soc Conservat Biol, Asia Sect	Kathmandu, NEPAL	2							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000239250500002		
J	Elliott, KJ; Knoepp, JD								The effects of three regeneration harvest methods on plant diversity and soil characteristics in the southern Appalachians								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				211	3			296	317		10.1016/j.foreco.2005.02.064			JUN 20 2005	2005	We evaluated the effects of three regeneration harvest methods on plant diversity and soil resource availability in mixed-hardwood ecosystems. The study area is in the Wine Spring Creek watershed on the Nantahala National Forest of the Southern Appalachian Mountains in western North Carolina. The regeneration treatments were: an irregular, two-aged shelterwood cut (2A), with 5.0 m(2)/ha residual basal area; a shelterwood cut (SW), with 9.0 m(2)/ha residual basal area; a group selection cut (GS), with 0.10-0.20 ha openings and 25% overstory removal on area basis at first entry; fourth, the control, consisted of two uncut sites (UC). Each harvest treatment was replicated three times across the landscape in similar plant community types. Within each treatment area, permanent plots were marked and inventoried for overstory, midstory, and herbaceous layer plants. In each permanent plot, we collected soil samples in winter (December-March) to reduce temporal variation due to vegetation phenological stage and rainfall events. We analyzed soil samples for extractable calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), cation exchange capacity (CEC), pH, bulk density, A-horizon depth, total carbon (C), and nitrogen (N). Species diversity of overstory, understory, and herbaceous layer species was evaluated using species richness (S), Shannon-Wiener's index of diversity (H), and Pielou's evenness index (E). We used direct gradient analysis (non-metric multidimensional scaling, NMS) to explore the changes in vegetation-site relationships among herbaceous layer abundance, and soil characteristics and overstory basal area between pre-harvest (1994) and post-harvest (2000). Twelve minor overstory species were cut from the 2A treatments and nine species were cut from the SW treatments. Thus, it is not surprising that S and H' were reduced in the overstory on the heavily cut sites. However, most of these species sprouted from cut stumps and were substantially more abundant in the midstory layer after harvest than before. For the midstory, we found higher S and H' on the harvested treatments than the control; however, IT did not differ significantly among the harvest treatments. We measured an increase in herbaceous layer H' on the more heavily cut treatments (2A and SW) after harvest. We found an increase in average distance in the NMS ordination among sites in 2000 compared to 1994, which suggests greater herbaceous species diversity after harvest. However, we did not see a clear separation among harvest treatments in the NMS ordination. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		US Forest Serv, USDA, Coweeta Hydrol Lab, So Res Stn, Otto, NC 28763 USA; [Elliott, KJ] US Forest Serv, USDA, Coweeta Hydrol Lab, So Res Stn, 3160 Coweeta Lab Rd, Otto, NC 28763 USA								54							Forestry	WOS:000229876000005		
J	Marn-Guirao, L; Cesar, A; Marn, A; Lloret, J; Vita, R								Establishing the ecological quality status of soft-bottom mining-impacted coastal water bodies in the scope of the Water Framework Directive								MARINE POLLUTION BULLETIN				50	4			374	387		10.1016/j.marpolbul.2004.11.019			APR 2005	2005	The aim of the present study was to check the usefulness of the benthic biotic indices proposed for application in the European water framework directive (WFD 2000/60/EC) for the ecological quality classification of coastal water bodies, together with some other benthic methodologies used in different countries of the world. The different approaches were applied in two marine ecosystems affected by the same heavy metal contamination source, coastal waters off Portman and the Mar Menor coastal lagoon, both in SE Spain. Two marine biotic indices proposed for application in the Directive (AMBI and BENTIX) were used, together with community descriptors (abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity, Margalef's species richness, Pielou's evenness and Simpson's Dominance), the relative benthic index (RBI) and the abundance-biomass comparison method (ABC). Water-sediment interface toxicity bioassays using sea urchin embryos and sediment metal analysis served to check the classifications obtained. The classical community descriptors pointed to a progressive variation in benthic communities along the metal contamination gradient of Portman, but, they did not correctly characterize the environmental status of the lagoon stations. Although the RBI was the index that best classified the sites according to their degree of pollution, the selection of indicator species can bias the results. Since the AMBI, the BENTIX and the ABC method are based on the pollution resulting from organic enrichment, their application in the case of purely toxic pollution may not be successful, as was found to be the case in these two mining-polluted ecosystems. Therefore, the development of new indicator lists according to the type of pollutant may serve to improve the results obtained with organic enrichment-based indices when studying other kinds of disturbance. Finally, we found the toxicity tests to be useful tools for the environmental assessment of aquatic ecosystems, and recommend their inclusion in the WFD. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain; Univ Santa Cecilia, Dept Ecotoxicol, BR-11045907 Santos, SP, Brazil; Univ Murcia, Fac Biol, Dept Ecol & Hidrol, E-30100 Murcia, Spain								77							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000228964500013		
J	Buzas, MA; Hayek, LAC								On richness and evenness within and between communities								PALEOBIOLOGY				31	2			199	220		10.1666/0094-8373(2005)031[0199:ORAEWA]2.0.CO;2			SPR 2005	2005	Although there is extraordinary interest in the quantitative measurement of species diversity, published statements on the behavior of the components of species diversity are contradictory and lead to opposite conclusions. In this paper, we demonstrate that the confusion is due to two key oversights: (1) whether or not biological sampling is carried out within or between communities; and (2) determination of the statistical distribution underlying a biological community, which is crucial for the evaluation of all of the components of diversity measurement. The problem of sampling "within" a population or community is basically distinct from the equivalent integration of structure and diversity measurement "between" differing multispecies populations. "Within-community sampling" is defined as a set of biological samples from a statistical population that has a particular statistical distribution or a constant value for the associated parameter(s). As the number of individuals increases along with the number of species, for a log series distribution, the diversity measures of Shannon's H, log series or Fisher's alpha, and Simpson's Index 1/lambda remain constant while the evenness measures of Buzas-Gibson's E and Pielou's J decrease. For a log-normal distribution, J will remain constant while E decreases and alpha, 1/lambda, and H increase. No single measure of evenness remains constant over all statistical distributions, so if constancy as a type of independence is required, the appropriate distribution must first be determined. Each species ensemble is mathematically fixed by the applicable statistical distribution. In contrast, "between-community sampling" is defined as a set of biological samples from different statistical distributions and/or the same distribution with differing parametric values. If sampling is between communities and S increases while the number of individuals remains constant, then all the other measures considered here increase. The exception is the broken stick, for which E remains constant while H, J, alpha, and 1/lambda increase. Herein we propose and justify the use of the log-series distribution (with regression on the information decomposition equation) as a null model for determination of community structure and demonstrate that the community structure of a Miocene bed at Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, is a log series by use of this new unified methodology.		Smithsonian Inst, Dept Paleobiol, Washington, DC 20560 USA; Smithsonian Inst, Washington, DC 20560 USA; [Buzas, MA] Smithsonian Inst, Dept Paleobiol, Washington, DC 20560 USA								66							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology; Paleontology	WOS:000229914800002		
J	Cao, ZP; Chen, GK; Chen, YF; Yang, H; Han, LF; Dawson, R								Comparative performance of nematode resistant rootstock and non-resistant tomato cultivars on soil biota								ALLELOPATHY JOURNAL				15	1			85	94					JAN 2005	2005	We compared the effects of two tomato cultivars - Maofen (Maofen-802) and resistant rootstock variety (Beaufort SIS-1, Lycopersicon lycopersicum x L. hirsutum) on soil biota population (fungi, protozoa, nematodes, mites) and microbial biomass carbon under severe infection of root-knot nematode (Meloidogyne incognita). The differences in soil biota composition were found between the two cultivars, when root-knot nematodes disease broke out in tomatoes near the harvest. The resistant rootstock promoted the soil microbial biomass and protozoa population, but decreased that of fungi (Trichoderma spp., Fusarium spp., Phytophthora spp., Pythium spp.) than Maofen cultivar. In resistant rootstock plot, both the root-knot nematode disease index and the density of Meloidogyne incognita juvenile were significantly lower than in Maofen plot during the late harvest period, but the density of free-living nematodes was much higher than in Maofen plot. Thus resistant rootstock increased population of beneficial nematode to suppress the pathogenic nematodes. Compared with Maofen, the resistant rootstock maintained the population of soil mites during the tomato growth and harvest period, contributing to a relative high biodiversity. Shannon-wiener's index of mites community were 1.63 in resistant rootstock plot and 0.83 in Maofen plot, while the Pielou's evenness index were 1.56 and 0.80, respectively.		Chinese Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Dept Ecol & Ecol Engn, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China; [Cao, ZP] Chinese Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Dept Ecol & Ecol Engn, Beijing 100094, Peoples R China				1st Chinese Allelopathy Conference	MAY 18-20, 2004	Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Appl Ecol	Shenyang, PEOPLES R CHINA	3							Agronomy	WOS:000227143900012		
J	Antoniadou, C; Nicolaidou, A; Chintiroglou, C								Polychaetes associated with the sciaphilic alga community in the northern Aegean Sea: spatial and temporal variability								HELGOLAND MARINE RESEARCH				58	3			168	182		10.1007/s10152-004-0182-6			OCT 2004	2004	Polychaete biodiversity has received little attention despite its importance in biomonitoring. This study describes polychaete diversity, and its spatial and temporal variability in infralittoral, hard substrate assemblages. Seven stations were chosen in the central area of the northern Aegean Sea. At each station, one to three depth levels were set (15, 30 and 40 m). Five replicates were collected by scuba diving with a quadrat sampler (400 cm(2)) from each station and depth level during summer for the spatial analysis, and seasonally for the study of temporal changes. Common biocoenotic methods were employed (estimation of numerical abundance, mean dominance, frequency, Margalef's richness, Shannon-Weaver index and Pielou's evenness). A total of 5,494 individuals, belonging to 79 species, were counted and classified. Diversity indices were always high. Clustering and multidimensional scaling techniques indicated a high heterogeneity of the stations, although these were all characterized by the sciaphilic alga community. A clear seasonal pattern was not detectable. Summer and autumn samples discriminate, while winter and spring form an even group. The abundance/biomass comparison indicated a dominance of k-strategy patterns, characteristic of stable communities.		Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Zool, Sch Biol, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece; Univ Athens, Zool Lab, Athens 15784, Greece; [Chintiroglou, C] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Dept Zool, Sch Biol, POB 134, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece								18							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000224617400005		
J	Onaindia, M; Dominguez, I; Albizu, I; Garbisu, C; Amezaga, I								Vegetation diversity and vertical structure as indicators of forest disturbance								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				195	3			341	354		10.1016/j.foreco.2004.02.059			JUL 5 2004	2004	Plant species composition and vertical structure of oak-mixed Atlantic woodlands differing on disturbance regime were studied in the Basque Country, northern Spain. Four different disturbance groups were considered depending on the time since last thinning and the presence/absence of grazers. Plant species cover varied among disturbance groups for 17 out of the total 47 species present in the study area. In general, disturbance by clear-cutting favoured the cover of Betula alba, Castanea sativa and Quercus robur. The shrub species most affected by disturbance were heathers. Among these, the most drastic effect was found for Calluna vulgaris, Daboecia cantabrica and Erica vagans which disappeared in those woodlands subjected to grazing. Several nemoral species, such as Vaccinium myrtillus, Blechnum spicant and Lamiastrum galeobdolon, were absent in these same grazed forests. By contrast, generalist species, such as Ruscus aculeatus, Geranium robertianum and Veronica officinalis, were mostly present in the grazed woodlands. Diversity was measured as Species Richness as well as with the Shannon's and Simpson's indices. Plant species richness did not vary with disturbance treatment, however, it was highest for trees and shrubs at those woodlands in an advanced stage of regeneration, and for herbs in the lowest and highest disturbance groups. Besides, only the third vertical layer (2.5-10 m) was affected by disturbance treatment. Simpson's was the best index to explain the observed differences in the structure of woodlands subjected to unalike levels of disturbance. Species diversity was highest in woodlands with lowest disturbance or in an advanced state of regeneration. Woodlands with lowest disturbance had the highest diversity of trees and those woodlands in an advanced state of regeneration showed the highest diversity of shrub species. Regarding vertical structure, diversity was mostly affected in the intermediate layer (2.5-10 m), with highest values found in woodlands at the lowest disturbance group, i.e. at least 100 years of no disturbance. Two indices of evenness, i.e. Pielou's and Simpson's were also calculated in this study. Results here presented suggest that plant species composition, percent cover of individual plant species, and the Simpson's diversity index (applied considering the different growth-forms and vertical layers) are suitable and complementary indices to evaluate disturbance at the studied woodlands. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ Basque Country, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, Bilbao 48080, Spain; NEIKER, Derio 48160, Spain; [Onaindia, M] Univ Basque Country, Dept Plant Biol & Ecol, POB 644, Bilbao 48080, Spain								107							Forestry	WOS:000222301100006		
J	Brashears, MB; Fajvan, MA; Schuler, TM								An assessment of canopy stratification and tree species diversity following clearcutting in central Appalachian hardwoods								FOREST SCIENCE				50	1			54	64					FEB 2004	2004	On high quality growing sites in West Virginia, shade intolerant tree species have increased in importance in third-generation forests following clearcutting. We investigated the effect of tree species canopy position on the Shannon-Weiner Diversity Index (H'), Pielou's evenness index (E), and species richness (S) using a chronosequence of 13 clearcuts. Two to 26 yr after clearcutting, tree species diversity significantly decreased from 2.07 to 1.83, and evenness decreased from 0.80 to 0.71 while species richness was maintained. As the number of years since harvesting increased, the importance value of oaks (Quercus L.), hickories (Carya Nutt.), American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.), sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.), and black birch (Betula lenta L.) decreased while the importance of yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera L.) increased. In these mixed-species stands with stratified canopies, species importance in overstory versus understory canopy layers was the best indicator of competitive success during stem exclusion. Second-gene ration forests that had almost equal representation of overstory sugar maple and yellow-poplar prior to harvesting had 43% yellow-poplar and 13% sugar maple overstory importance 22-26 yr after harvest. Forty-five percent of the dominant crown class stems and 54% of the codominant class were yellow-poplar. While sugar maple was also an important (13%) overstory species overall, it had no dominant and few codominant stems and over 30% importance as overtopped trees and in the understory. As these stands progress through the stem exclusion stage, richness and measures of diversity may continue declining as yellow-poplar basal area increases.		W Virginia Univ, Div Forestry, Morgantown, WV 26506 USA; US Forest Serv, USDA, Timber & Watershed Lab, Parsons, WV 26287 USA; [Brashears, MB] 188 Marathon Pl, Romney, WV 26757 USA								29							Forestry	WOS:000188962300007		
J	Howard, LF; Lee, TD								Temporal patterns of vascular plant diversity in southeastern New Hampshire forests								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				185	1-2			5	20		10.1016/S0378-1127(03)00243-3			NOV 3 2003	2003	A chronosequence of 22 sites in Durham, NH, was used to study upland successional patterns of species diversity over a span of 14-209 years of forest development and to test the hypothesis that diversity is maximized at mid-succession. Nested quadrat sampling was used to estimate the relative importance values of vascular plant species in the tree, shrub, and herb strata. The successional status of each site was estimated using two dendrochronological indices: oldest tree index and abandonment index. Four indices of species diversity were calculated for each site and stratum: species richness, the Shannon index, Hurlbert's probability of interspecific association, and Pielou's evenness. Within the quadrats of all 22 sites, total richness was 168 species of vascular plants. Richness decreased linearly over the 200-year chronosequence in all strata for both successional indices, from a maximum of 74 species at 14 years to a low of 13 species at 209 years. Evenness showed no evidence of a successional pattern, so the combined indices of diversity (Shannon and Hurlbert) displayed only weak trends. Multiple regression showed that successional age was always a significant predictor of species richness in every stratum (except the shrub stratum when using the abandonment index), and that stem density (i.e., the "sample size effect") was not significant in the tree stratum when using the oldest tree index. Age indices held comparable or lower P-values than stem density in most strata. It is likely that richness increased from a low value immediately following farm abandonment to a peak around the age of the youngest sites sampled (over a span of 15-30 years), the rate of increase being governed by the availability of dispersing seeds. The observed decline in richness over the rest of succession was probably caused in part by a decrease in available light. The rate of decline was apparently determined by the rate of competitive elimination of shade-intolerant species. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		Univ New Hampshire, Dept Plant Biol, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Howard, LF] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Plant Biol, Durham, NH 03824 USA				Conference on Shrublands and Early-Successional Forests	MAY 04-05, 2002		UNIV NEW HAMPSHIRE, DURHAM, NH	45							Forestry	WOS:000186391100002		
J	Chellappa, NT; Costa, MAM								Dominant and co-existing species of Cyanobacteria from a Eutrophicated reservoir of Rio Grande do Norte State, Brazil								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				24				S3	S10		10.1016/S1146-609X(03)00005-5			MAY 2003	2003	This paper reports on the cyanobacterial population, its ecology, dominance and coexistence characteristics in one annual cycle of a eutrophicated Gargalheiras reservoir (Marechal Dutra) of Acari, in the state of Rio Grande do Norte of Brazil. The study was conducted between November 1999 and May 2000, which included the dryand wet seasons. It is an old, man-made impounded water reservoir. The methodology included the collection of phytoplankton samples from the surface to the bottom in a fixed station to include four vertical profiles and to analyse them for physico-chemical and algological characteristics. Ecological indices, such as Shannon-Weaver for species diversity, Margalef's species richness and Pielou's evenness were calculated. The results reveal the characteristics of the eutrophic to the hyper trophic state for the Gargalheiras reservoir with the dominance of Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii, Raphidiopsis curvata, Microcystis aeroginosa and Oscillatoria sp during the dry period. Cages were suspended to culture Amazonian fish, Tambaqui, at the beginning of the wet period close to the sampling stations in the reservoir and treated for point source nutrient loading and disturbance factor. This localised disturbance stimulated the growth of Chlorophyceae species, which co-existed along with the species of cyanobacteria to finally dominate; coinciding with the stability of monsoon rain in May. The conclusion drawn from the study period revealed that the reservoir with high inorganic nutrients had reduced transparency, anoxic hypolimnion, elevated levels of electrical conductivity and the dominance of cyanobacteria during the dry period and the dominance of chlorophyceae in the wet period. (C) 2003 Editions scientifiques et medicales Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.		Univ Fed Rio Grande Norte, Dept Oceanog & Limnol, BR-59012340 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Chellappa, NT] Univ Fed Rio Grande Norte, Dept Oceanog & Limnol, BR-59012340 Natal, RN, Brazil				International Plankton Symposium	SEP, 2001		PORTUGAL	41							Ecology	WOS:000183900400002		
J	Ricotta, Carlo; Avena, Giancarlo								On the relationship between Pielou's evenness and landscape dominance within the context of Hill's diversity profiles								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				2	4			361	365		10.1016/S1470-160X(03)00005-0			FEB 2003	2003	Entropy-related biodiversity indices deriving their conceptual basis from Shannon's information theory have a long history of use in ecology for quantifying community structure and diversity. In addition, in the last two decades, numerous information-theoretical indices, such as the landscape dominance index, have been extensively applied to characterize landscape diversity in space and time. In this contribution, we offer a simple analytical relation between Pielou's evenness J and landscape dominance D within the broader context of Hill's parametric diversity family. Within this context, we recommend the use of Hill's diversity number evenness E-1,E-0 to overcome the shortcomings both of Pielou's evenness J and the landscape dominance index D. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Ricotta, Carlo; Avena, Giancarlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, I-00185 Rome, Italy; [Ricotta, Carlo] Univ Roma La Sapienza, Dept Plant Biol, Piazzale Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy								39							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000209345700005		
J	Arnaud, PM; Troncoso, JS; Ramos, A								Species diversity and assemblages of macrobenthic Mollusca from the South Shetland Islands and Bransfield Strait (Antarctica)								POLAR BIOLOGY				24	2			105	112		10.1007/s003000000183			FEB 2001	2001	During the research program BENTART 95, carried out from 16 January to 4 February 1995 on board RV Hesperides, a semi-quantitative Agassiz trawl and quantitative Van-Veen grabs were used at 31 subtidal stations between 40 and 850 m depth around Livingston Island, at Deception Island and in the Bransfield Strait. These data were used to search for and analyse the malacological assemblages. Among the molluscs sampled were 1,786 individuals belonging to 70 species of Solenogastres, Gastropoda Prosobranchia and Opisthobranchia, Scaphopoda and Bivalvia. The values of Shannon-Wiener diversity index ranged between 0.00 (one specimen) and 3.95, while Pielou's evenness index varied between 0.0 and 1.00. The bivalve Thyasira cf. dearborni was the most abundant species (227 specimens). Species richness varied from 1 to 19 species. Diversity showed great variations at different stations. The clustering analysis applying the Bray Curtis coefficient allowed species classification according to constancy and fidelity, and distinguished four groups of stations: one that gathers clearly the stations of the inner bay of Deception Island, excepting station 1, and the other three fitting the remaining stations, located north and south of Livingston Island and in the Bransfield Strait, and correlated with environmental factors (granulometric composition, organic matter and carbonates).		Ctr Oceanol Marseille, Marine Endoume Stn, F-13007 Marseille, France; Univ Vigo, Fac Ciencias Mar, Area Biol Anim, Vigo, Pontevedra, Spain; Inst Espanol Oceanog, Fuengirola 29640, Malaga, Spain; [Arnaud, PM] Ctr Oceanol Marseille, Marine Endoume Stn, Rue Batterie Lions, F-13007 Marseille, France								25							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000166579800006		
J	Pitknen, S								Classification of vegetational diversity in managed boreal forests in eastern Finland								PLANT ECOLOGY				146	1			11	28		10.1023/A:1009877403926			JAN 2000	2000	Diversity of vegetation in managed forests is studied. A classification based on forest stand structure, the abundances of vegetation species and variations in these abundances is developed and diversity indices are calculated for the classes to describe the diversity of the vegetation within the classes. The classes were formed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), global nonmetric multidimensional scaling (GNMDS) and TWINSPAN classification. Discriminant analysis was used to determine the environmental variables differentiating between the classes, and Duncan's multiple range test was used to examine the ability of the diversity measures to distinguish the classes. Beta diversity was estimated with Okland's method based on DCA ordination of the sample plots. The results point to fertility and the successional stage of the stand as the main factors affecting species diversity, in addition to which soil type, the number of tree species, crown cover, basal area and certain variables describing the management of the stand were relevant to the classification. The most distinct diversity indices were the reciprocal of Simpson, Pielou's J' and species richness, while the highest alpha diversity was found in young stands with a low crown cover on herb-rich or mesic forest sites. Beta diversity was quite high, its highest values of all for the whole data being recorded along the fertility gradient.		Univ Joensuu, Fac Forestry, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland; Univ Joensuu, Fac Forestry, POB 111, FIN-80101 Joensuu, Finland								11							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000085307800002		
J	D'Addabbo, M; Grimaldi, SD; Morone, MRD; Pietanza, R; D'Addabbo, R; Todaro, MA								Diversity and dynamics of an interstitial Tardigrada population in the Meloria Shoals, Ligurian Sea, with a redescription of <i>Batillipes similis</i> (Heterotardigrada, Batillipedidae)								ITALIAN JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY				66	1			51	61		10.1080/11250009909356237			1999	1999	Quantitative samples of sediment for the study of the meiofauna were collected monthly ben een March 1996 and February 1997 from a 7-m-deep site in the Meloria Shoals, Livorno Italy. In the Tuscan Shoals, 16 species of tardigrades were found belonging to the families Stygarctidae, Halechiniscidae, and Batillipedidae. Megastygarctides orbiculatus and Actinarctus doryphorus are reported for the first time in the Mediterranean Sea, and a redescription of Batillipes similis is proposed. Global density of the Tardigrada population fluctuated between 8 ind./10 cm(2) in May 1996 and 285 ind./10 cm(2) in January 1397. The lowest value of the Shannon-Wiener biodiversity index (H' = 1.09) was found in September 1996, whereas the highest score (H' = 2.46) was obtained in March 1996. Pielou's evenness index (J) fluctuated between 0.40 and 0.88, values attained in January 1997 and March 1996, respectively. The study confirms the notion that the organogenic detritus of the Shoals represents a very favourable environment for meiofaunal organisms in general, and Tardigrada in particular.		Univ Bari, Dipartimento Zool, I-70125 Bari, Italy; [D'Addabbo, M] Univ Bari, Dipartimento Zool, Via Orabona 4, I-70125 Bari, Italy								17							Zoology	WOS:000080065500009		
J	Ibanez, JJ; Saldaa, A; De-Alba, S; Lobo, A; Zucarello, V								Pedodiversity and global soil patterns at coarse scales								GEODERMA				83	3-4			171	192		10.1016/S0016-7061(97)00147-X			MAY 1998	1998	Several algorithms for analyzing the diversity of the world pedosphere are reviewed and employed. Special emphasis has been laid on indices based on the Theory of Information. We study the diversity and distribution of major soil groups by continents and climatic zones on the basis of data compiled by the FAO at the scale 1:5,000,000. Major soil group-distribution model relationships on a world level seem to follow more equitable patterns than those established for biocenoses and soil patterns at fine scales. At a continental level, the pedosphere's diversity is characterized by similarities rather than differences. Differences in diversity by climatic zones are more marked. Evenness (Pielou's index) and diversity (Shannon's index) tend to be greater in the climatic zones of intermediate latitudes than in circumequatorial and circumboreal latitudes. The climatic zones closest to the Poles could be the planet's most uniform soil patterns at small scales. Mountain areas, in general, achieve the highest pedorichness and lowest values of diversity. Global soil pattern distribution was also analyzed using multivariate techniques. At a continental level, it is possible for the structure of the global pedosphere to be determined by the continent's geological, tectonic and climatic histories. Soil patterns of different climatic zones are linked in a very well-defined latitudinal gradient. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.		CSIC, Ctr Ciencias Medioambientales, Madrid 28006, Spain; Int Ctr Theoret & Appl Ecol, I-34170 Gorizia, Italy; CSIC, Inst Ciencias Tierra, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain; [Ibanez, JJ] CSIC, Ctr Ciencias Medioambientales, Serrano 115 Dpdo, Madrid 28006, Spain								82							Soil Science	WOS:000073833200001		
J	Drake, P; Arias, AM								The effect of aquaculture practices on the benthic macroinvertebrate community of a lagoon system in the Bay of Cadiz (southwestern Spain)								ESTUARIES				20	4			677	688		10.2307/1352243			DEC 1997	1997	Monthly quantitative Ekman-Birge grab sampling was used to characterize and compare the composition and structure of the benthic macroinvertebrate community inhabiting semi-enclosed polyculture lagoons (SPL) (three sampling sites) and enclosed monoculture ponds (EMP) (two sampling sites) of a lagoonal system of the Bay of Cadiz. The two areas differed considerably in habitat characteristics and aquaculture management. The SPL area was characterized by low rates of water exchange, low fish densities, and the presence of a macroalgal cover. In the EMP area, there was a complete exchange of water daily (by pumping) and a supply of food pellets, density of fish was high, and no vegetative cover was present, There were considerable differences in species composition between habitats with different culture methods: 11 of the 21 most abundant species were exclusive to one or the other. Several epibenthic species were abundant in the polyculture lagoon but were low in density or were absent in monoculture ponds. Some infaunal species, on the other hand, were more abundant in the monoculture ponds. Univariate measures of community structure (abundance and biomass, Margalef's species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and Pielou's evenness indices) did not indicate significant differences between the SPL and EMP areas. Conversely, the abundance-biomass comparison (ABC) method indicated that, on average, the macrobenthic community was moderately disturbed in the SPL and undisturbed in the EMP areas. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) ordination and hierarchical cluster analysis (Bray-Curtis similarity measure) revealed the occurrence of two main benthic assemblages that corresponded to the aquaculture methods. The different rates of water exchange for the two aquaculture practices seem to have contributed to differences in the composition and structure of the benthic communities.		CSIC, Inst Ciencias Marinas Andalucia, Cadiz 11510, Spain; [Drake, P] CSIC, Inst Ciencias Marinas Andalucia, Cadiz 11510, Spain								41							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000071147300002		
J	Elliott, KJ; Boring, LR; Swank, WT; Haines, BR								Successional changes in plant species diversity and composition after clearcutting a Southern Appalachian watershed								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				92	1-3			67	85		10.1016/S0378-1127(96)03947-3			MAY 1997	1997	Watershed 7, a southwest-facing watershed in the Coweeta Basin, western North Carolina, USA, was clearcut in 1977. Twenty-four permanent plots were inventoried in 1974 before cutting and in 1977, 1979, 1984, and 1993 after clearcutting. This study evaluates changes in species diversity during early succession after clearcutting and differences in overstory tree and ground flora response to disturbance by clearcutting and their interaction with previous disturbances and subsequent stand development, To quantify species diversity, we computed Shannon-Weaver's index of diversity (H') and Pielou's evenness index (J'). Woody species diversity remained relatively stable; however, woody species richness increased in the cove-hardwoods and hardwood-pines, but remained relatively constant in the mixed-oak hardwoods. Although revegetation was rapid, forest composition has changed through succession. Opportunistic species, such as Liriodendron tulipifera, Robinia pseudoacacia, and Acer rubrum, increased in abundance, whereas Quercus velutina, Carya spp., and e. rubra decreased. Ground flora diversity declined in the cove-hardwoods and mixed-oak hardwoods communities, but the decrease in the hardwood-pines was not significant. The abundance (g biomass m(-2)) of ground flora was much lower in 1993 than in 1984; 79% less in the cove-hardwoods, 90% less in the mixed-oak hardwoods, and 79% less in the hardwood-pines. Watershed 7 is apparently in a transition state between early and late successional species abundance. Early successional, shade-intolerant species, such as Erechtites, Solidago, Eupatorium, Panicum, and Aster, have declined, whereas late successional, shade-tolerant species, such as Viola, Galium, Sanguinaria, Uvularia, and Veratrum are not yet well established.		JOSEPH W JONES ECOL RES CTR, NEWTON, GA 31770 USA; UNIV GEORGIA, SCH FOREST RESOURCES, ATHENS, GA 30602 USA; UNIV GEORGIA, DEPT BOT, ATHENS, GA 30602 USA; [Elliott, KJ] US FOREST SERV, USDA, SRS, COWEETA HYDROL LAB, OTTO, NC 28763 USA								110							Forestry	WOS:A1997XA85300008		
J	SanvicenteAnorve, L; Lepretre, A; Davoult, D								Large-scale spatial pattern of the macrobenthic diversity in the eastern English Channel								JOURNAL OF THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM				76	1			153	160					FEB 1996	1996	A description is provided of the large-scale spatial distribution of the diversity of the benthic macrofauna in the eastern English Channel. Data from the oceanographic cruises of the RCP (Recherche Cooperative sur Programme) Benthos de la Manche Research Programme were obtained during the summers of 1971 to 1975. A total of 707 samples were analysed. Diversity of each sample was measured by means of the species richness (i.e. the total number of species present), the Shannon-Weaver diversity index and Pielou's evenness index. Diversity values were plotted for all 707 oceanographic stations in the area, following a smoothing procedure. Large-scale spatial trends of diversity of the benthic macrofauna were analysed in relation to sediment and species assemblage distribution, but no spatial correlation was found between the two factors. These results indicate that mechanisms affecting large-scale spatial distribution of the diversity are different from those acting on a smaller scale. The role of the hydro-sedimentary processes acting at the geographic scale of the eastern English Channel as presumptive causes of this large-scale pattern of the macrobenthic diversity is discussed.		STN MARINE WIMEREUX,URA CNRS 1363,F-62930 WIMEREUX,FRANCE; [SanvicenteAnorve, L] UNIV SCI & TECH LILLE FLANDRES ARTOIS,LAB ECOL NUMER SN3,URA CNRS 1363,F-59655 VILLENEUVE DASCQ,FRANCE				Meeting on Marine Biodiversity - Causes and Consequences	AUG 30-SEP 02, 1994	Marine Biol Assoc; Scottish Assoc Marine Sci; World Wildlife Fund Nat; Nat Hist Museum; Marine Conservat Soc	YORK, ENGLAND	20							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1996TZ50100011		
J	LOBO, EA; KATOH, K; ARUGA, Y								RESPONSE OF EPILITHIC DIATOM ASSEMBLAGES TO WATER-POLLUTION IN RIVERS IN THE TOKYO METROPOLITAN-AREA, JAPAN								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				34	1			191	204		10.1111/j.1365-2427.1995.tb00435.x			AUG 1995	1995	1. During the spring of 1992, fifty-two quantitative diatom samples were collected from twenty-eight rivers located in the Tokyo Metropolitan area, Japan, to study the response of the diatom assemblages to water pollution (assessed using physical and chemical data determined monthly from April 1987 to March 1992). 2. Species composition was analysed by means of biotic indices (Pantle and Buck's saprobic index) and multivariate analyses [two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) for classification and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) for ordination]. Species-abundance relationships were analysed using diversity indices (species richness, Shannon's diversity index and Pielou's evenness index) and rank-abundance patterns (rank-abundance curves). 3. CCA revealed two major gradients. The first corresponded to organic pollution and eutrophication. The second corresponded to variables related to geographical location. Four main station groups were determined by TWINSPAN. The location of the indicator species of groups 1-3 along the CCA axis 1 is consistent with their known pollution tolerance characteristics. Indicator species for group 4 had larger scores on CCA axis 2, and are representative of brackish water environments. 4. Species richness tended to be higher in the intermediate range of water pollution. Pielou's evenness index and Shannon's diversity index followed the same tendency but only weakly. 5. The rank-abundance patterns of diatom assemblages were more or less constant in all stations. The curves were very similar in shape, differing only in length and gradient (directly related to species richness and evenness, respectively). 6. The results of this study indicate that the response of diatom assemblages to environmental change can be observed in species compositional variation. Multivariate analyses and pollution indices revealed this response and are to be preferred to species diversity measures.		UNIV TOKYO,FAC AGR,LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE & SCI LAB,BUNKYO KU,TOKYO 113,JAPAN; TOKYO UNIV FISHERIES,PSYCHOL LAB,MINATO KU,TOKYO 108,JAPAN								64							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:A1995RP65400019		
