PT	AU	BA	CA	GP	RI	OI	BE	Z2	TI	X1	Y1	Z1	FT	PN	AE	Z3	SO	S1	SE	BS	VL	IS	SI	MA	BP	EP	AR	DI	D2	SU	PD	PY	AB	X4	C1	Y4	Z4	AK	CT	CY	SP	CL	TC	Z8	ZB	ZS	Z9	SN	BN	WC	UT	PM
J	He, Hu; Li, Yan; Peng, Kai; Zhang, You; Rutter, Robert P.; Jyvasjarvi, Jussi; Hamalainen, Heikki; Kelly, David; Chase, Jonathan M.; Ntislidou, Chrysoula; Loskutova, Olga; Alcocer, Javier; Jovem-Azevedo, Daniele; Molozzi, Joseline; Wang, Jianjun; Zhang, Min; Li, Kuanyi; Liu, Zhengwen; Johansson, Liselotte S.; Sondergaard, Martin; Cai, Yongjiu; Wang, Haijun; Jeppesen, Erik								Climate-associated variation in the drivers of benthic macroinvertebrate species-area relationships across shallow freshwater lakes								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY				93	1			57	70		10.1111/1365-2656.14028			JAN 2024	2024	1. The island species-area relationship (ISAR) describes how species richness increases with increasing area of a given island or island-like habitat, such as freshwater lakes. While the ISAR is one of the most common phenomena observed in ecology, there is variation in both the form of the relationship and its underlying mechanisms.2. We compiled a global data set of benthic macroinvertebrates from 524 shallow freshwater lakes, ranging from 1 to 293,300 ha in area. We used individual-based rarefaction to determine the degree to which ISAR was influenced by mechanisms other than passive sampling (larger islands passively sample more individuals from the regional pool and, therefore, have more species than smaller islands), which would bias results away from expected relationships between rarefied species richness (and other measures that capture relative abundances) and lake area. We also examined how climate may alter the shape of the ISARs.3. We found that both rarefied species richness (the number of species standardized by area or number of individuals) and a measure of evenness emphasizing common species exhibit shallow slopes in relationships with lake area, suggesting that the expected ISARs in these lakes most likely result from passive sampling. While there was considerable variation among ISARs across the investigated lakes, we found an overall positive rarefied ISAR for lakes in warm (i.e. tropical/subtropical) regions (n = 195), and in contrast, an overall negative rarefied ISAR in cool (i.e. north temperate) lakes (n = 329). This suggested that mechanisms beyond passive sampling (e.g. colonization-extinction dynamics and/or heterogeneity) were more likely to operate in warm lakes. One possible reason for this difference is that the area-dependent intensity of fish predation, which can lead to flatter ISARs, is weaker in warmer relative to cooler lakes.4. Our study illustrates the importance of understanding both the pattern and potential processes underlying the ISARs of freshwater lakes in different climatic regions. Furthermore, it provides a baseline for understanding how further changes to the ecosystem (i.e. in lake area or climate) might influence biodiversity patterns.		[He, Hu; Peng, Kai; Zhang, You; Wang, Jianjun; Zhang, Min; Li, Kuanyi; Liu, Zhengwen; Cai, Yongjiu] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [He, Hu] Chuzhou Univ, Sch Civil Engn & Architecture, Chuzhou, Peoples R China; [Li, Yan] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Hydrobiol, Wuhan, Peoples R China; [Rutter, Robert P.] Charlotte Cty Dept Environm Serv, Port Charlotte, FL USA; [Jyvasjarvi, Jussi] Univ Oulu, Ecol & Genet Res Unit, Oulu, Finland; [Hamalainen, Heikki] Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Kelly, David] Cawthron Inst, Nelson, New Zealand; [Chase, Jonathan M.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany; [Chase, Jonathan M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Comp Sci, Halle, Saale, Germany; [Ntislidou, Chrysoula] Aristotle Univ Thessaloniki, Sch Biol, Dept Zool, Thessaloniki, Greece; [Loskutova, Olga] Russian Acad Sci, Komi Sci Ctr, Inst Biol, Ural Branch, Syktyvkar, Russia; [Alcocer, Javier] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, FES Iztacala, Grp Invest Limnol Trop, Tlalnepantla, Mexico; [Jovem-Azevedo, Daniele] Inst Fed Sertao Pernambucano, Petrolina, Brazil; [Molozzi, Joseline] Univ Estadual Paraiba, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Conservacao, Campina Grande, PB, Brazil; [Liu, Zhengwen; Johansson, Liselotte S.; Sondergaard, Martin; Jeppesen, Erik] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Sino Danish Coll, Sino Danish Ctr Educ & Res, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhengwen] Jinan Univ, Dept Ecol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Liu, Zhengwen] Jinan Univ, Inst Hydrobiol, Guangzhou, Peoples R China; [Johansson, Liselotte S.; Sondergaard, Martin; Jeppesen, Erik] Aarhus Univ, Dept Ecosci, Aarhus, Denmark; [Wang, Haijun; Jeppesen, Erik] Yunnan Univ, Inst Ecol Res & Pollut Control Plateau Lakes, Sch Ecol & Environm Sci, Kunming, Peoples R China; [Jeppesen, Erik] Middle East Tech Univ, Ctr Ecosyst Res & Implementat, Dept Biol Sci, Limnol Lab, Ankara, Turkiye; [He, Hu] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geog & Limnol, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [He, Hu] Chuzhou Univ, Sch Civil Engn & Architecture, Chuzhou, Peoples R China								0							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:001106352800001		
J	Chiu, Chun-Huo								Sample coverage estimation, rarefaction, and extrapolation based on sample-based abundance data								ECOLOGY				104	8					e4099	10.1002/ecy.4099			AUG 2023	2023	Sample coverage, the proportion of individuals that belong to observed species in a sample, is a metric used to measure the completeness of a sample. Rather than using equal sample sizes, equal sample coverage has become a widely accepted standard for comparing diversity across multiple assemblages, resulting in a more accurate representation of the true relationship between the richness of the assemblages. In practice, sample-based abundance data are the most frequently used data type for evaluating species diversity. In sample-based abundance data, the sampling unit (e.g., a plot, net, trap, or transect) is randomly selected from the target area, and the number of individuals for each species observed in the sampled unit is recorded. In this case, the individuals in the sample are no longer randomly and independently sampled, and the Good-Turing estimators of abundance-based sample coverage in reference, rarefied, and extrapolated samples may be severely biased when individuals present a highly spatially aggregated pattern. Here, I derive a novel estimator of abundance-based sample coverage based on the Good-Turing frequency formula. Additionally, a new analytical approach is introduced for enabling smooth coverage-based rarefaction and extrapolation to compare richness among assemblages. The near unbiasedness of the proposed estimator and a less biased richness ratio achieved using the newly developed coverage-based standardizing approach are demonstrated by analyzing three ForestGEO permanent forest plot data sets.		[Chiu, Chun-Huo] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Agron, Taipei, Taiwan; [Chiu, Chun-Huo] Natl Taiwan Univ, Dept Agron, Taipei, Taiwan								0							Ecology	WOS:001012816400001		
J	Nowakowska, J.; Cameron, D. R.; De Martino, A.; Kuhn, J.; Le Fresne-Languille, S.; Leuillet, S.; Amouzou, Y.; Wittke, F.; Carton, T.; Le Vacon, F.; Chaves, R. L.; Nicolas-Metral, V; Vuagniaux, G.								Evaluation of the microbiota-sparing properties of the anti-staphylococcal antibiotic afabicin								JOURNAL OF ANTIMICROBIAL CHEMOTHERAPY				78	8			1900	1908		10.1093/jac/dkad181			AUG 2 2023	2023	Background Antibiotic use is associated with collateral damage to the healthy microbiota. Afabicin is a first-in-class prodrug inhibitor of the FabI enzyme that, when converted to the pharmacologically active agent afabicin desphosphono, demonstrates a staphylococcal-specific spectrum of activity. An expected benefit of highly targeted antibiotics such as afabicin is microbiome preservation. Objectives To compare the effects of oral treatment with afabicin and standard-of-care antibiotics upon the murine gut microbiota, and to assess the effects of oral afabicin treatment on the human gut microbiota. Methods Gut microbiota effects of a 10 day oral course of afabicin treatment were monitored in mice and compared with clindamycin, linezolid and moxifloxacin at human-equivalent dose levels using 16S rDNA sequencing. Further, the gut microbiota of healthy volunteers was longitudinally assessed across 20 days of oral treatment with afabicin 240 mg twice daily. Results Afabicin treatment did not significantly alter gut microbiota diversity (Shannon H index) or richness (rarefied Chao1) in mice. Only limited changes to taxonomic abundances were observed in afabicin-treated animals. In contrast, clindamycin, linezolid and moxifloxacin each caused extensive dysbiosis in the murine model. In humans, afabicin treatment was not associated with alterations in Shannon H or rarefied Chao1 indices, nor relative taxonomic abundances, supporting the findings from the animal model. Conclusions Oral treatment with afabicin is associated with preservation of the gut microbiota in mice and healthy subjects.		[Nowakowska, J.; Cameron, D. R.; Kuhn, J.; Nicolas-Metral, V; Vuagniaux, G.] Debiopharm Int SA, Translat Med Dept, Chemin Messidor 5-7, CH-1006 Lausanne, Switzerland; [De Martino, A.; Le Fresne-Languille, S.; Leuillet, S.; Amouzou, Y.; Carton, T.; Le Vacon, F.] Biofortis SAS, Res & Dev Dept, 3 Route Chatterie, F-44800 St Herblain, France; [Wittke, F.; Chaves, R. L.] Debiopharm Int SA, Clin Dev Dept, Chemin Messidor 5-7, CH-1006 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Cameron, D. R.] Debiopharm Int SA, Translat Med Dept, Chemin Messidor 5-7, CH-1006 Lausanne, Switzerland								1							Infectious Diseases; Microbiology; Pharmacology & Pharmacy	WOS:001003434800001		
J	Esquivel, M. Jimena; Vilchez-Mendoza, Sergio; Harvey, Celia A.; Ospina, Mayra A.; Somarriba, Eduardo; Deheuvels, Olivier; de M. Virginio Filho, Elias; Haggar, Jeremy; Detlefsen, Guillermo; Cerdan, Carlos; Casanoves, Fernando; Ordonez, Jenny C.								Patterns of shade plant diversity in four agroforestry systems across Central America: a meta-analysis								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				13	1					8538	10.1038/s41598-023-35578-7			MAY 26 2023	2023	Agroforestry systems can potentially increase tree diversity within agricultural landscapes, but to date, there is little understanding of the patterns of shade plant diversity within different agroforestry systems (AFS) at large spatial scales. Using compiled plant inventory data (from 23 sources, 2517 plots, and 148,255 individuals) encompassing four AFS (shaded coffee; shaded cocoa; dispersed trees on pastures; and live fences) across six countries in Central America we estimated different metrics of diversity to assess the conservation value of different AFS for shade plants. 458 shade plant species were recorded across the four agroforestry systems. Primary forest species accounted for 28% of the shade species recorded, but only 6% of the recorded individuals. No single AFS was consistently the most diverse across countries when considering rarefied species richness. Trees on pastures can potentially reach a similar species richness as cocoa and coffee systems but require sampled areas 7-30 times larger. In terms of composition, 29 species were shared across the agroforestry systems in different countries, illustrating the strong selection pressure of farmers for species that provide timber, firewood, and fruit. Our study highlights the potential contribution and limitations of different AFS for tree diversity conservation within agricultural landscapes.		[Esquivel, M. Jimena; Vilchez-Mendoza, Sergio; Ospina, Mayra A.; Somarriba, Eduardo; de M. Virginio Filho, Elias; Detlefsen, Guillermo; Casanoves, Fernando] CATIE Ctr Agron Trop Invest & Ensenanza, Turrialba 30501, Costa Rica; [Esquivel, M. Jimena] Wageningen Univ, Dept Anim Sci, Anim Prod Syst Grp APS, NL-6708 WD Wageningen, Netherlands; [Esquivel, M. Jimena] Leiden Univ, Inst Environm Sci CML, Environm Biol, NL-2333 CC Leiden, Netherlands; [Esquivel, M. Jimena] CIPAV, Ctr Invest Sistemas Sostenibles Prod Agr, Cra 25 6-62, Cali, Colombia; [Harvey, Celia A.] Monteverde Inst, Puntarenas 695655, Costa Rica; [Deheuvels, Olivier] Univ Montpellier, Inst Agro, CIRAD, UMR ABSys,CIHEAM IAMM,INRAE, F-34398 Montpellier, France; [Deheuvels, Olivier] CIRAD, UMR ABSys, Santo Domingo 10126, Dominican Rep; [Haggar, Jeremy] Univ Greenwich, Nat Resources Inst, Fac Engn & Sci, Medway Campus,Cent Ave Chatham Maritime, Gillingham ME4 4TB, Kent, England; [Cerdan, Carlos] Univ Veracruzana, Fac Ciencias Agr, Lomas Estadio S-N, Xalapa 91000, Veracruz, Mexico; [Casanoves, Fernando] Univ Amazonia, Grp Invest Agroecosistemas & Conservac Bosques Ama, Florencia, Colombia; [Ordonez, Jenny C.] Univ Amer, Carrera Ingn Agroind, Quito, Ecuador; [Ordonez, Jenny C.] Word Agroforestry Ctr ICRAF Latin Amer, DID, CATIE 7170, Turrialba 30501, Costa Rica; [Ordonez, Jenny C.] Univ Amer, Carrera Ingn Agroind, Quito, Ecuador; [Ordonez, Jenny C.] Word Agroforestry Ctr ICRAF Latin Amer, DID, CATIE 7170, Turrialba 30501, Costa Rica								0							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:001001070500055		
J	Chen, Ying; Zhao, Peng; Xu, Qiaochu; Qu, Bingjie; Li, Dan; Clement, Sarah; Li, Li								Relating biodiversity with health disparities of human population: An ecological study across the United States								ONE HEALTH				16						100548	10.1016/j.onehlt.2023.100548			JUN 2023	2023	Understanding biodiversity's contributions to human health is the first step toward fostering synergies between biodiversity conservation and health promotion - two major targets of UN's Sustainable Development Goals. The One Health approach acknowledges the health of people and biodiversity are interconnected and facing common threats. In this study, we aimed to unveil the geographical association between avian biodiversity and population health across the US. In this ecological study, we combined citizen science bird data from eBird, population health data from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and county-level statistics of population characteristics, including socio-economics, healthcare service etc. Multivariate linear regression analyses were performed between bird biodiversity (measured by rarefied species richness of birds), key indicators of general public health (e.g., cause-specific mortality rate), and socio-economic health determinants of 2751 US counties. We found that a higher number of bird species was significantly associated with longer life expectancy after confounding adjustment (regression coefficient (95% CIs), 0.005 (0.003, 0.008)). Bird species richness calculated using the rarefied method consistently accounted for variance in age-specific mortality risks in both very young and old age groups (R2 from 2% to 4%). Rarefied species richness of birds was negatively correlated with the majority of cause-specific deaths (12 out of 21 mutually exclusive causes of death), indicating a general synergy effect between biodiversity and human health. The associations with the top causes of deaths were regarded as highly significant, with considerable effect sizes, for example, for cardiovascular diseases (regression coefficient (95% CIs), -0.242 (-0.311, -0.174)). Our findings show human health is inseparable from the health of the shared environment and the well-being of all species. Bird species richness offers a valuable means to understand large-scale relationships between human health and the health of the environment. To enable equitable sharing of biodiversity's benefits to human health, more efforts should be made to understand two-way socio-ecological mechanism underlying human-biodiversity interactions.		[Chen, Ying; Xu, Qiaochu] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Wisdom Lake Acad Pharm, Suzhou 215123, Peoples R China; [Zhao, Peng; Qu, Bingjie; Li, Dan; Li, Li] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou 215123, Peoples R China; [Qu, Bingjie] Univ Liverpool, Inst Syst Mol & Integrat Biol, Fac Hlth & Life Sci, Liverpool, England; [Clement, Sarah] Australian Natl Univ, Fenner Sch Environm & Soc, Canberra 2601, Australia; [Clement, Sarah] Univ Liverpool, Sch Environm Sci, Dept Geog & Planning, Liverpool, England; [Li, Li] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou 215123, Peoples R China								0							Public, Environmental & Occupational Health; Infectious Diseases	WOS:001041951800001		
J	Rozak, Andes Hamuraby; Kusuma, Yayan Wahyu Candra; Junaedi, Decky Indrawan								Co-benefits of biomass and biodiversity in a protected mountain forest of West Java, Indonesia								IFOREST-BIOGEOSCIENCES AND FORESTRY				16				62	69		10.3832/ifor4068-015[online2023-03-05			APR 2023	2023	Tropical mountain forests are relatively less disturbed and store a large amount of carbon in tree biomass. A high level of species diversity compared to the boreal and temperate forests is also maintained and indicates a positive relationship with tree biomass on a small scale or at plot level. This study aimed to estimate above-ground biomass stocks (AGB) and disentangle the in-fluence of forest structure and attributes on AGB in a small mountain forest. Forty 400 m2 plots were randomly established in Takokak Nature Reserve (TNR), a 60-ha protected area at an elevation between 1150-1560 m a.s.l., lo-cated in West Java, Indonesia. All trees within the plot were identified, and their respective diameter at breast height (DBH) was measured. AGB was cal-culated using a global allometric model. Five independent variables, i.e., stem density, stem density of large trees (DBH >50 cm), community weighted mean wood density, rarefied species richness, and Fisher's alpha index, were ana-lysed using a linear model. Our results showed that AGB in TNR was compara-ble to other forest types in Indonesia and acted as carbon storage in the moun-tain regions. AGB in the TNR reached 486 Mg ha-1, of which 75% was contrib-uted by large trees (DBH >50 cm). Three species, i.e., Liquidambar excelsa (Altingiaceae), Schima wallichii (Theaceae), and Lithocarpus sp. (Fagaceae), represent at least 70% of the total biomass in the study site. We also found that forest structures and traits, i.e., stem density, stem density of large trees, and community weighted mean wood density, drive AGB variations but not tree diversity indices. However, although diversity indices were not corre-lated to AGB, we found that TNR is home for endemic and threatened species on the IUCN Red List. Therefore, we suggest that the management strategies of the tropical forests should include both the conservation of the carbon stock and biodiversity.		[Rozak, Andes Hamuraby] Natl Res & Innovat Agcy BRIN, Res Ctr Plant Conservat Bot Gardens & Forestry, Kusnoto Bldg, Jl Ir H Juanda 18, Bogor 16122, West Java, Indonesia; [Kusuma, Yayan Wahyu Candra; Junaedi, Decky Indrawan] Nat Res & Innovat Agcy BRIN, Res Ctr Ecol & Ethnobiol, Kawasan Sains dan Teknol Dr, Jl Jakarta Bogor Km 4, Bogor 16911, West Java, Indonesia; [Rozak, Andes Hamuraby] Natl Res & Innovat Agcy BRIN, Res Ctr Plant Conservat Bot Gardens & Forestry, Kusnoto Bldg, Jl Ir H Juanda 18, Bogor 16122, West Java, Indonesia								0							Forestry	WOS:000991538300001		
J	Shi, Xiao-Yu; Orr, Michael; Luo, Arong; Wang, Ming-Qiang; Guo, Pengfei; Zhou, Qing-Song; Niu, Zeqing; Qiao, Huijie; Zou, Yi; Zhu, Chao-Dong								Optimizing low-cost sampling of pollinator insects in oilseed rape fields								FRONTIERS IN SUSTAINABLE FOOD SYSTEMS				7						1155458	10.3389/fsufs.2023.1155458			MAR 28 2023	2023	Insects are key pollinators to ecosystem function, but much work remains to determine the most cost-effective, reliable scheme to monitor them. Pan traps (PT) and flight interception traps (FIT) are two of the most popular insect sampling methods used. However, their relative sampling performance and cost is poorly known for agroecosystems in China. We conducted a study across 18 oilseed rape fields in smallholder farmland in Zhejiang, China using these two traps. Our results showed that a single FIT had a greater sampling efficiency (more individuals and higher species richness) than a single PT, but controlling for cost, four PTs (the cost for four PTs is close to one FIT) showed a greater sampling efficiency than FITs. PTs collected more small-bodied individuals while FITs and PTs did not significantly differ in terms of monitoring pollinator insects with large body size. When exploring whether semi-natural habitat embedded in the agricultural landscape affected these results, results from both trap types shows that semi-natural habitat had a significant positive impact on wild pollinator diversity and rarefied species richness. Future studies that examine the effects of agricultural landscape on the wild pollinator community should combine PTs with netting or other active methods for long-term wild pollinator monitoring strategies.		[Shi, Xiao-Yu; Orr, Michael; Luo, Arong; Zhou, Qing-Song; Niu, Zeqing; Zhu, Chao-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Key Lab Zool Systemat & Evolut, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ming-Qiang] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, CAS Key Lab Mt Ecol Restorat & Bioresource Utiliza, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Wang, Ming-Qiang] Chinese Acad Sci, Chengdu Inst Biol, Ecol Restorat & Biodivers Conservat Key Lab Sichua, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Guo, Pengfei] Guizhou Univ Tradit Chinese Med, Coll Pharm, Guiyang, Peoples R China; [Qiao, Huijie] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Key Lab Anim Ecol & Conservat Biol, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Chao-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, State Key Lab Integrated Pest Management, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Chao-Dong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Coll Life Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Chao-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Key Lab Zool Systemat & Evolut, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Chao-Dong] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, State Key Lab Integrated Pest Management, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zhu, Chao-Dong] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Coll Life Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Food Science & Technology	WOS:000966455800001		
J	Luong, Justin C.; Press, Daniel M.; Holl, Karen D.								Lessons learned from an interdisciplinary evaluation of long-term restoration outcomes on 37 restored coastal grasslands in California								BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION				280						109956	10.1016/j.biocon.2023.109956			APR 2023	2023	Governmental and non-governmental organizations spend considerable funding on restoring ecosystems to counter biodiversity loss, yet outcomes are often not assessed at a regional scale. Monitoring is done <= 5 years after project-implementation, if at all, and rarely assesses the effects of management practices on project success. We combined vegetation surveys and management interviews to compare long-term restoration outcomes of 37 California coastal grassland projects (5-33 y post-implementation) that spanned a 1000-km north-south gradient. We found that coastal grassland restoration is largely successful at reaching project goals (95 %) and a standard performance metric (80 %) to restore native cover, but land managers preferentially use a small number of welltested, "high success" species, potentially at the expense of regional diversity. Medium and high maintenance intensity resulted in lower non-native cover and improved native cover and rarefied native richness. Managers of voluntary (non-statutory) sites were more open to assessing outcomes and spent less per hectare compared to legally mandated (statutory) projects but achieved similar plant cover and even higher rarefied richness. Statutory project managers indicated that regulatory agencies sometimes lowered compliance goals for native cover if the initial targets were not met. Additional funding for greater maintenance intensity and incorporating more locally distinctive species (i.e., endemic or range-restricted) may help counteract potential unintended consequences from preferential plant selection, and inter-agency coordination of species selection could reduce biotic homogenization. We recommend delegating funds to a third-party monitoring group to ensure legally mandated compliance and consistency in assessment.		[Luong, Justin C.; Holl, Karen D.] Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Environm Studies Dept, 1156 High St, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA; [Luong, Justin C.] Univ Calif Davis, Plant Sci Dept, 1 Shields Ave, Davis, CA 95616 USA; [Press, Daniel M.] Santa Clara Univ, Environm Studies & Sci, 500 Camino Real, Santa Clara, CA 95053 USA; [Luong, Justin C.] 1 Harpst St, Arcata, CA 95521 USA; [Luong, Justin C.] 1 Harpst St, Arcata, CA 95521 USA								1							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000944718300001		
J	Kornan, Martin								Temporal patterns of breeding bird assemblages in small urban parks reveal relatively low stability and asynchrony								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				24	1			99	111		10.1007/s42974-023-00133-x			APR 2023	2023	Parks serve as biodiversity centers in urban habitats and significantly affect the abundance and persistence of local bird populations. I examined bird assemblage stability, biodiversity, qualitative and quantitative composition, species turnover, changes in species ranking and composition, overall stability and synchrony in relation to park size in three small parks in the Town of Zvolen, Slovakia. Bird censuses were conducted by the combined version of the mapping method in 2014-2018. The mean species density and the total assemblage density were significantly different among parks and tended to decrease with increasing park size. The rarefied species richness and diversity measures within and between parks showed no or only very few significant differences in the five-year time series, but tended to be significantly higher in the larger parks at least in some years. The Sorensen (incidence) index-based clustering (UPGMA and cluster optimalization) almost perfectly divided year samples into three groups corresponding to the park sites, while the Horn (dominance) index only into two. None of the three species turnover metrics showed consistent patterns among parks, yet the highest mean total turnover was detected in the smallest park. Rate of assemblage changes showed decreasing trend with the increasing park size. The highest value of the assemblage stability metric was also found in the largest park. Bird assemblages showed relatively high degree of asynchrony in species abundances over time. These results indicate relatively low temporal stability, not strict boundaries and asynchrony of bird assemblages of these small parks.		[Kornan, Martin] Tech Univ Zvolen, Fac Forestry, Dept Appl Zool & Wildlife Management, Zvolen 96001, Slovakia; [Kornan, Martin] Ctr Ecol Studies, Ustredie 14, Velke Rovne 01362, Slovakia; [Kornan, Martin] Tech Univ Zvolen, Fac Forestry, Dept Appl Zool & Wildlife Management, Zvolen 96001, Slovakia; [Kornan, Martin] Ctr Ecol Studies, Ustredie 14, Velke Rovne 01362, Slovakia								0							Ecology	WOS:000928530000001		
J	Zou, Yi; Zhao, Peng; Axmacher, Jan Christoph								Estimating total species richness: Fitting rarefaction by asymptotic approximation								ECOSPHERE				14	1					e4363	10.1002/ecs2.4363			JAN 2023	2023	Estimating the number of species in a community is important for assessments of biodiversity. Previous species richness estimators are mainly based on nonparametric approaches. Although parametric asymptotic models have been applied, they received limited attention due to specific limitations. Here, we introduce parametric models fitting the probability-based rarefied species richness curve that allow us to estimate the "Total Expected Species" (TES) in a community based on species' abundance data. We develop two approaches to calculate TES (termed "TESa" and "TESb"), based on two slightly different mathematical assumptions regarding Expected Species (ES) models. We provide R functions to calculate both these estimation approaches and their standard deviation. The function also enables users to visualize the estimation. We test the performance of TESa, TESb, and their average (TESab) across simulated and empirical data, and compare their bias, precision, and accuracy with other commonly used, nonparametric species richness estimators: the bias-corrected (bc-)Chao1 and the abundance-based coverage estimator (ACE). Simulation reveals that in small samples TESa shows a tendency to overestimate and TESb to underestimate overall species richness. TESab performs well in bias, precision, and accuracy when compared with (bc-)Chao1 and ACE estimators. Results from empirical data show that the variance generated from TES estimates is comparable with that for (bc-)Chao1 and ACE. Our study demonstrates that rarefaction theory in combination with parametric approximation models provides a valuable new approach to estimate the species richness of incompletely sampled communities. Robust estimates are likely to be obtained where the observed number of species is greater than half of the TES estimation. When the ratio of TESa to the observed richness is >> 2, we suggest the use of TESb or TESab. Although more comprehensive comparisons with other estimators are suggested, we encourage researchers to consider the TES approach in their biodiversity studies as a complement to current existing estimators.		[Zou, Yi; Zhao, Peng] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Axmacher, Jan Christoph] UCL, UCL Dept Geog, London, England; [Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China								3							Ecology	WOS:000920346200001		
J	Vasconcelos, Heraldo Luis; Feitosa, Rodrigo Machado; Durigan, Giselda; Leao, Ruthe Emilia Oliveira Saraiva; Neves, Karen Christina Ferreira								The Ground-Dwelling Ant Fauna from a Cerrado Reserve in Southeastern Brazil: Vegetation Heterogeneity as a Promoter of Ant Diversity								NEOTROPICAL ENTOMOLOGY				52	1			36	45		10.1007/s13744-022-01010-4			FEB 2023	2023	Ants represent one of the most diverse and ecologically important group of insects in tropical ecosystems, including in highly threatened ones such as the Brazilian Cerrado. Yet, a detailed understanding of the species diversity and composition of local Cerrado ant assemblages is lacking in many cases. Here we present the results of a comprehensive ant inventory performed within a region of the Cerrado (in Sao Paulo state) where most of the original vegetation has already been lost and where few conservation units exist. We performed consecutive surveys of the ant fauna that forage on the ground in replicated plots established in open savanna (campo sujo), dense savanna (cerrado sensu stricto), and forest (cerradao). Our surveys, with an estimated sample coverage of 99.4%, revealed a total of 219 species of ants from 60 genera, of which 36.1% were found in all the three vegetation types and 29.7% in just one. Rarefied species richness did not differ between vegetation types, but species composition differed markedly, especially between the two savannas in one hand and the forest in the other. Several species (60.1% of the 128 species analyzed) were significant "indicator" species due to their strong association with a given vegetation type. Overall, our findings reinforce the idea that habitat heterogeneity enhances ant diversity and that the mosaic of vegetation types that characterizes the Cerrado biome is one of the main factors explaining the elevated number of species that can be found at relatively small scales.		[Vasconcelos, Heraldo Luis; Leao, Ruthe Emilia Oliveira Saraiva; Neves, Karen Christina Ferreira] Univ Fed Uberlandia UFU, Inst Biol, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Feitosa, Rodrigo Machado] Univ Fed Parana UFPR, Depto Zool, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil; [Durigan, Giselda] Inst Pesquisas Ambientais, Floresta Estadual Assis, Assis, SP, Brazil; [Vasconcelos, Heraldo Luis] Univ Fed Uberlandia UFU, Inst Biol, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil								1							Entomology	WOS:000890155900001		
J	Macedo, Rafael Lacerda; Sousa, Francisco Diogo R.; Veras, Vinicius; Elmoor-Loureiro, Lourdes M. A.; Branco, Christina Wyss Castelo								species: gaps and perspectives in Rio de Janeiro State, southeastern Brazil								NAUPLIUS				30						e2022032	10.1590/2358-2936e2022032			NOV 28 2022	2022	Our knowledge of cladoceran species composition and distribution of Neotropical taxa is incomplete, therefore misleading the basic understanding of biodiversity processes and biogeographical patterns of this ecologically relevant group. We present new records and an updated checklist of the cladocerans of Rio de Janeiro State (Brazil) based on a critical review of their known distribution throughout the different freshwater ecoregions. Nine marine species were recorded, and 80 non-marine cladocerans were counted from two of the four ecoregions of Rio de Janeiro State. We estimate species richness applying the interpolation and extrapolation method, using iNEXT function. With this approach we compute diversity estimates for rarefied and extrapolated samples up to double the reference sample size (number of studies). Four new records of rare species were included from surveys in the Paraiba do Sul ecoregion. The Fluminense ecoregion shows a higher richness with a more asymptotic curve and thus a lower expected richness in comparison to the Paraiba do Sul ecoregion. Ceriodaphnia cornuta Sars, 1886 was the most frequently found species whilst Moina macrocopa Straus, 1820 was the only non-native species encountered. Our study can contribute to developing a biogeographical understanding of this diverse group in a heterogeneous territory in terms of inland waters. Future studies are suggested to prioritize novel ecoregions and unexplored habitats e.g. littoral zones with high macrophyte and periphyton coverage, brackish waters, saline and high-altitude lakes, as more diverse and heterogeneous habitats will undoubtedly reveal additional records.		[Macedo, Rafael Lacerda] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, UFSCAR, Dept Ecol & Biol Evolut, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Macedo, Rafael Lacerda; Veras, Vinicius; Branco, Christina Wyss Castelo] Univ Fed Estado Rio De Janeiro UNIRIO, Dept Zool, Nucleo Estudos Limnoldg, Av Pasteur 458, BR-22290240 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Sousa, Francisco Diogo R.; Elmoor-Loureiro, Lourdes M. A.] Univ Fed Jatai UFJ, Unidade Academ Especial Ciencias Biol, Lab Taxon Anim, BR 364,Km 195,3800, BR-75801615 Jatai, GO, Brazil; [Sousa, Francisco Diogo R.] Campus Univ Darcy Ribeiro, Univ Brasilia UnB, Programa PosGrad Zool, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Veras, Vinicius] Fiocruz MS, Inst Oswaldo Cruz, Lab Avaliacao & Promocao Saude Ambiental, Av Brasil,4365 Manguinhos, BR-21040360 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil; [Macedo, Rafael Lacerda] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, UFSCAR, Dept Ecol & Biol Evolut, Rodovia Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Macedo, Rafael Lacerda] Univ Fed Estado Rio De Janeiro UNIRIO, Dept Zool, Nucleo Estudos Limnoldg, Av Pasteur 458, BR-22290240 Rio De Janeiro, RJ, Brazil								3							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Zoology	WOS:000904970600001		
J	Feng, Guang; Huang, Jihong; Long, Wenxing; Ai, Xunru; Li, Junqing; Zang, Runguo								The species richness pattern and its component dependence of two typical secondary forests in central China								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				143						109370	10.1016/j.ecolind.2022.109370			OCT 2022	2022	Secondary forests dominated by Masson pine (Pinus massoniana, MPF) and Chinese fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata, CFF) are widespread in the subtropical areas of China, whereas their biodiversity patterns receive far less attention than biomass patterns. This study aimed to gain insights into the species richness (SR) patterns of the typical natural secondary MPF and CFF in central China, with the old-growth zonal vegetation (evergreen-deciduous broadleaved mixed forest, EDBMF) used as reference. We established 45 plots across the three forest types and surveyed all the stems with a diameter at breast height >= 1 cm in each plot. Specifically, we compared the local (plot-level) and rarefied SR among the three forest types; at the metacommunity level, we examined the dependence of the rarefied SR difference between MPF and CFF on the number of individuals (N), species abundance distribution (SAD), and conspecific spatial aggregation (CSA); and we also assessed how local SR changed with N and species dominance within MPF and CFF. Our results showed that MPF had local and rarefied SR levels higher than CFF and closer to EDBMF. Both N and SAD had positive contributions to the high rarefied SR level of MPF (relative to CFF), while CSA had negative contributions. The N contributions were significant and dominated at most scale, the SAD contributions were considerable and significant at large scales, and the CSA contributions were significant at small and intermediate scales. Moreover, within MPF and CFF, local SR changed with N more generally than with species dominance. In conclusion, at both local and metacommunity level, MPF was generally more species-rich than CFF, and this difference remarkably depended on N, suggesting that the habitat conditions of CFF may be stressful for species persistence. Our findings also have several implications for biodiversity research and ecosystem management.		[Feng, Guang; Long, Wenxing] Hainan Univ, Coll Forestry, Hainan Wuzhishan Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res Stn, Haikou, Peoples R China; [Feng, Guang; Long, Wenxing] Hainan Univ, Key Lab Trop Forest Flower Genet & Germplasm Innov, Minist Educ, Haikou, Peoples R China; [Huang, Jihong; Zang, Runguo] Chinese Acad Forestry, Ecol & Nat Conservat Inst, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Natl Forestry Grassland Adm, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Huang, Jihong; Zang, Runguo] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coinnovat Ctr Sustainable Forestry Southern China, Nanjing, Peoples R China; [Ai, Xunru] Hubei Minzu Univ, Sch Forestry & Hort, Enshi Xingdoushan Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res St, Enshi, Peoples R China; [Li, Junqing] Beijing Forestry Univ, Key Lab Silviculture & Conservat, Minist Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Huang, Jihong] Chinese Acad Forestry, Ecol & Nat Conservat Inst, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Natl Forestry Grassland Adm, Beijing, Peoples R China								0							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000862829800004		
J	Gilgado, Jose D.; Rusterholz, Hans-Peter; Braschler, Brigitte; Zimmermann, Stephan; Chittaro, Yannick; Baur, Bruno								Six groups of ground-dwelling arthropods show different diversity responses along elevational gradients in the Swiss Alps								PLOS ONE				17	7					e0271831	10.1371/journal.pone.0271831			JUL 25 2022	2022	Elevational gradients along mountain slopes offer opportunities to study key factors shaping species diversity patterns. Several environmental factors change over short distances along the elevational gradient in predictable ways. However, different taxa respond to these factors differently resulting in various proposed models for biodiversity patterns along elevational transects. Using a multi-taxa approach, we investigated the effects of elevation, area, habitat and soil characteristics on species richness, individual abundance and species composition of six groups of ground-dwelling arthropods along four transect lines in the Swiss National Park and its surroundings (Eastern Alps). Spiders, millipedes, centipedes, ants, ground beetles and rove beetles were sampled using standardized methods (pitfall traps, cardboard traps, visual search) in 65 sites spanning an elevational range from 1800 to 2750 m a.s.l.. A total of 14,782 individuals comprising 248 species were collected (86 spider, 74 rove beetle, 34 ground beetle, 21 millipede, 19 centipede and 14 ant species). Linear mixed model-analysis revealed that rarefied species richness in five out of the six arthropod groups was affected by elevation (the quadratic term of elevation provided the best fit in most cases). We found three different patterns (linear decrease in centipedes, low elevation plateau followed by a decrease in ants and rove beetles, and midpoint peak in spiders and millipedes). These patterns were only partially mirrored when considering individual abundance. Elevation influenced species composition in all groups examined. Overall, elevation was the most important factor explaining the diversity patterns, while most local habitat and soil characteristics have little influence on these patterns. Our study supports the importance of using multi-taxa approaches when examining effects of elevational gradients. Considering only a single group may result in misleading findings for overall biodiversity.		[Gilgado, Jose D.; Rusterholz, Hans-Peter; Braschler, Brigitte; Baur, Bruno] Univ Basel, Dept Environm Sci, Sect Conservat Biol, Basel, Switzerland; [Gilgado, Jose D.] Univ Alcala, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Vida, Grp Invest Biol Suelo & Ecosistemas Subterreneos, Madrid, Spain; [Zimmermann, Stephan] Swiss Fed Inst Forest Snow & Landscape Res WSL, Forest Soils & Biogeochem, Zurich, Switzerland; [Chittaro, Yannick] Ctr Suisse Cartog Faune CSCF, Info Fauna, Neuchatel, Switzerland; [Zimmermann, Stephan] Swiss Fed Inst Forest Snow & Landscape Res WSL, Forest Soils & Biogeochem, Zurich, Switzerland								4							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000892932200044		
J	Rajesh, T. P.; Manoj, K.; Prashanth Ballullaya, U.; Shibil, V. K.; Asha, G.; Varma, Sangeetha; Mohan, Prabitha; Sinu, Palatty Allesh								Urban tropical forest islets as hotspots of ants in general and invasive ants in particular								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				12	1					12003	10.1038/s41598-022-16243-x			JUL 14 2022	2022	Urbanization is a crucial driver of environmental and biodiversity change. It is suggested that urbanization favours generalist and invasive species and might harm specialists of natural and semi-natural habitats. In this study, we examined how an urbanization gradient and environmental gradients in the habitat area, habitat diversity, elevation, and proportion of built-up area influenced the abundance and richness of ants within tropical forest islet habitat in south India. We used abundance (proportional trap incidence) of overall ants, native ants, invasive ants, and Anoplolepis gracilipes-a globally notorious invasive ant of possible south Asian origin-and rarefied richness as the response variables. We found that native ant abundance was greater and A. gracilipes abundance was lesser in less-urbanized landscape compared to moderately-urbanized and highly-urbanized landscape. The richness of ants and abundance of overall and invasive ants were unaffected by the urbanization. We also found that none of the measured environmental gradients but habitat diversity influenced abundance of overall ants, native ants, overall invasive ants, and richness of ants; however, A. gracilipes abundance was negatively correlated with habitat diversity. Ant species composition of less-urbanized landscape was distinct from that of higher urbanization levels. The richness and abundance of native ants and abundance of non-A. gracilipes invasive ants decreased with the abundance of A. gracilipes. Because the forest islets of all three urbanization levels supported similar richness of native ants, the urbanization seems not to have an adverse effect for the native ants of native forest islets. The increasing population of A. gracilipes in urban green islets, however, is a concern. Future studies might investigate its effect on other invertebrates of epigeal and soil strata.		[Rajesh, T. P.; Manoj, K.; Prashanth Ballullaya, U.; Shibil, V. K.; Asha, G.; Varma, Sangeetha; Mohan, Prabitha; Sinu, Palatty Allesh] Cent Univ Kerala, Periya 671316, Kerala, India; [Sinu, Palatty Allesh] Cent Univ Kerala, Periya 671316, Kerala, India								3							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000825428500050		
J	Akomolafe, Gbenga F.; Rosazlina, Rusly; Rahmad, Zakaria; Oloyede, Fatai A.								Patterns of ferns community assemblages in some Malaysian and Nigerian tropical forests								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				12	6					e8961	10.1002/ece3.8961			JUL 2022	2022	Research on fern ecology has gained attention in the last decade, yet there is a paucity of information on the comparison of ferns communities across continents. This study focused on comparing the ferns community assemblages in some tropical forests of Malaysia and Nigeria, thereby assessing the patterns of species richness (SR) and phylogenetic diversity (PD) in relation to the bioclimatic drivers across the continents. The diversity and taxonomic compositions of ferns were assessed using 180 plots of 10 m x 10 m in each country. The species richness and other diversity indices were determined using the combined forests data for each country and for the individual forests. Also, the phylogenetic diversity of the ferns was assessed using the genus-based molecular sequences downloaded from the GeneBank. The patterns of the ferns SR and PD in the two countries as driven by some bioclimatic factors were evaluated using the regression analysis. The observed and rarefied-extrapolated fern species richness is significantly higher in Malaysian forests than in Nigerian forests. Also, the other diversity indices are significantly higher in Malaysian forests except for the Shannon index which showed no significant difference between the two biogeographic regions. There is a very low similarity (7.41%) in the taxonomic composition of ferns between the two biogeographic areas, although the similarity in composition increased with increasing taxonomic levels (species: 7.41%, genus: 12.77%, family: 70.96%). Terrestrial and epiphytic ferns are more dominant than the other life forms in the two countries. The precipitation variables drive the phylogenetic structure of ferns in Nigeria, whereas both precipitation and temperature variables drive the phylogenetic structure of ferns in Malaysia. This indicates that ferns assemblages in Nigeria and Malaysia are driven by both climatic variables. Besides, we also hypothesize that these observed differences could be due to other historical and evolutionary processes.		[Akomolafe, Gbenga F.; Rosazlina, Rusly; Rahmad, Zakaria] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Minden 11800, Penang, Malaysia; [Akomolafe, Gbenga F.] Fed Univ Lafia, Dept Plant Sci & Biotechnol, Lafia, Nigeria; [Oloyede, Fatai A.] Obafemi Awolowo Univ, Dept Bot, Ife, Nigeria; [Rosazlina, Rusly] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Minden 11800, Penang, Malaysia								0							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000805383400001		
J	Panigrahi, Manas Kumar; Kaliaperumal, Venkatesh; Akella, Abhishek; Venugopal, Giriprasad; Ramadass, Balamurugan								Mapping microbiome-redox spectrum and evaluating Microbial-Redox Index in chronic gastritis								SCIENTIFIC REPORTS				12	1					8450	10.1038/s41598-022-12431-x			MAY 19 2022	2022	Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and chronic gastritis are prevalent in developing countries. The role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal mucosal disorders is well recognized. In PUD, the gastric mucosa and its associated microbiome are subject to diet and stress-induced oxidative perturbations. Tissue redox potential (ORP) measurement can quantify oxidative stress, reflecting the balance between prooxidants and antioxidants. This study hypothesizes that the oxidative stress quantified by tissue ORP will be associated with characteristic changes in the mucosa-associated microbiome in PUD and gastritis. In addition, we propose using relative microbial abundance as a quantitative marker of mucosal health. Endoscopy was performed to obtain gastric mucosal biopsies from ten PUD and ten non-ulcer dyspepsia (NUD) patients. The tissue ORP was measured directly with a microelectrode using a biopsy specimen. A second specimen from an adjacent site was subjected to 16s rRNA gene sequencing. From the OTUs, the relative abundance of the microbial taxon in each of the samples was derived. We analyzed the genome of the predominant species for genes encoding the utilization of oxygen as an electron acceptor in respiration and for the presence of antioxidant defense mechanisms. The organisms were then grouped based on their established and inferred redox traits. Shannon diversity index and Species richness were calculated on rarefied data. The relative abundance of organisms that prefer high ORP over those that favor low ORP is conceived as the "Microbial Redox Index (MRI)," an indicator of mucosal health. In the gastric mucosa, aerobic species predominate and are more diverse than the anaerobes. The predominant aerobes are Helicobacter pylori and Sphingobacterium mizutaii. The abundance of these two species had an inverse correlation with the abundance of low ORP preferring anaerobes. Their relative abundance ratio (Microbial Redox Index) correlated with the tissue oxidation-reduction potential (ORP), a direct measure of oxidative stress. Correlation analysis also revealed that the abundance of all anaerobes inversely correlated with the dominant aerobic taxa. In addition, Shannon and Species richness diversity indices, the probable indicators of mucosal health, were negatively correlated with Microbial Redox Index. Using PUD as a prototype mucosal disease, this article describes a generalized approach to infer and quantify mucosal oxidative stress by analyzing the relative abundance of microorganisms that preferentially grow at the extremes of the tissue redox potential. This ratiometric Microbial Redox Index can also be assessed using simple qPCR without the need for sequencing. The approach described herein may be helpful as a widely applicable quantitative measure of mucosal health with prognostic and therapeutic implications.		[Panigrahi, Manas Kumar] All India Inst Med Sci, Dept Gastroenterol, Bhubaneswar, India; [Kaliaperumal, Venkatesh] ICMR Natl Inst Nutr, MYAS NIN Dept Sports Sci, Hyderabad, India; [Akella, Abhishek; Venugopal, Giriprasad; Ramadass, Balamurugan] All India Inst Med Sci, Ctr Excellence Clin Microbiome Res, Bhubaneswar 751019, India; [Ramadass, Balamurugan] All India Inst Med Sci, Dept Biochem, Bhubaneswar, India; [Ramadass, Balamurugan] All India Inst Med Sci, Ctr Excellence Clin Microbiome Res, Bhubaneswar 751019, India; [Ramadass, Balamurugan] All India Inst Med Sci, Dept Biochem, Bhubaneswar, India								6							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000798064600075		
J	Shi, Xiaoyu; Fu, Daomeng; Xiao, Haijun; Hodgson, Jenny A.; Yan, Dongyue; Zou, Yi								Comparison between window traps and pan traps in monitoring flower-visiting insects in agricultural fields								BULLETIN OF ENTOMOLOGICAL RESEARCH				112	5			691	696	PII S0007485322000104	10.1017/S0007485322000104			OCT 2022	2022	Sampling flower-visiting insects in agricultural fields at large spatial and temporal scales is significant for understanding local insect pollinator communities. The most commonly used method, pan trap, has been criticized due to its attractant bias. A window trap (also referred to as the flight-intercept trap) is a non-attractant sampling method, which has been applied in forests and grasslands, but rarely in agricultural fields. We aim to test whether we can replace pan traps with window traps in agricultural fields by comparing species richness and species composition between the two methods, and to show whether flower-visiting insects collected in both traps can reflect flower-visiting activity recorded by camera observation. We conducted a 2-year study to compare the performance of these sampling methods in an oilseed rape field. Results showed that the relative abundance of dominant flower-visiting species was highly correlated between the window trap and the pan trap samples, while window traps caught more individuals and higher (rarefied) species richness than pan traps. The species composition of window traps was more similar to each other than that of pan traps. The proportion of honey bees (Apis spp.) collected in both traps underestimated their flower-visiting activity recorded by camera observations, while sweat bees (Halictidae) and butterflies (Lepidoptera) were overestimated. Our study suggests that the window trap has the potential to serve as an alternative sampling method of flower-visiting insects to the pan trap. However, we need to be cautious when using specimens caught in both traps as a proxy of their flower-visiting activity.		[Shi, Xiaoyu; Yan, Dongyue; Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Fu, Daomeng; Xiao, Haijun] Jiangxi Agr Univ, Inst Entomol, Nanchang, Jiangxi, Peoples R China; [Fu, Daomeng] China Agr Univ, Coll Resources & Environm Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Haijun] Beijing Forestry Univ, Sch Grassland Sci, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Hodgson, Jenny A.] Univ Liverpool, Dept Evolut Ecol & Behav, Liverpool, Merseyside, England; [Zou, Yi] Xian Jiaotong Liverpool Univ, Dept Hlth & Environm Sci, Suzhou, Peoples R China; [Xiao, Haijun] Jiangxi Agr Univ, Inst Entomol, Nanchang, Jiangxi, Peoples R China								5							Entomology	WOS:000779318700001		
J	Jarvinen, Ari; Himanen, Sari J.; Raiskio, Sakari; Hyvonen, Terho								Intercropping of insect-pollinated crops supports a characteristic pollinator assemblage								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				332						107930	10.1016/j.agee.2022.107930			JUL 1 2022	2022	Intensive agriculture is one of the key drivers of global -pollinator decline. More ecologically sustainable cropping methods are urgently needed to preserve pollinators and to maintain future crop yields. This study examined the impact of strip intercropping on pollinators of spring turnip rape and faba bean. The pollinator abundance, species diversity, and species assemblages in monoculture and intercropping treatments were compared in a two-year field experiment in 2019-2020. Pan traps and transect counts were used to sample pollinators.Transect counts showed the highest pollinator abundance in turnip rape monoculture, medium in intercropping, and the lowest in faba bean monoculture. Pan traps indicated no difference in pollinator abundance among treatments but revealed increasing abundance and species diversity during the flowering season. Temporal change in species assemblage was also detected. Each treatment had distinct pollinator assemblage despite explicit honeybee dominance. All the most common pollinator species were present in the intercropping treatment, but there was no treatment impact on rare species. The rarefied species pool in the intercropping treatment exceeded that of monocultures but pollinator species richness did not differ among the treatments. Pollinator species diversity and evenness were higher in faba bean monoculture than in turnip rape monoculture, but neither had a pairwise difference with the intercropping treatment. Intercropping partially succeeded in substituting abundant turnip rape pollinators with more specialized faba bean pollinators. This resulted in a pollinator species assemblage with a broader range of foraging traits and more even abundance distribution compared with that in pure stands. At the landscape scale, such a shift would potentially improve ecological sustainability by reducing pollinator shortages, preventing pollinator dilution, and interfering less with natural plant pollination. However, rare pollinator species and landscape-level species diversity of pollinators must be supported with additional complementary methods.		[Jarvinen, Ari] Nat Resources Inst Finland Luke, Survontie 9 A, FI-40500 Jyvaskyla, Finland; [Himanen, Sari J.] Nat Resources Inst Finland Luke, Lonnrotinkatu 5, Mikkeli, Finland; [Himanen, Sari J.] South Eastern Finland Univ Appl Sci Xamk, Patteristonkatu 3 D, Mikkeli, Finland; [Raiskio, Sakari; Hyvonen, Terho] Nat Resources Inst Finland Luke, Tietotie 4, Jokioinen, Finland; [Jarvinen, Ari] Nat Resources Inst Finland Luke, Survontie 9 A, FI-40500 Jyvaskyla, Finland								5							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000790514700001		
J	Vilar, Ciro Colodetti; Andrades, Ryan; Szablak, Flavio Toscano; Guabiroba, Helder Coelho; Pichler, Helen Audrey; Bastos, Kathiani Victor; Santana de Lima, Layza Roxanne; Pereira Bastos, Pedro Garcia; Martins, Rebeka Ferreira; Amaral Rodrigues, Vitor Leonardo; Hostim-Silva, Mauricio; Joyeux, Jean-Christophe								Variability in nearshore fish biodiversity indicators after a mining disaster in eastern Brazil								MARINE ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH				175						105565	10.1016/j.marenvres.2022.105565			MAR 2022	2022	The rupture of the Funda similar to o mining dam (Doce river basin, Brazil) caused a wide range of negative impacts. Yet, assemblage-level implications to estuarine and coastal fishes remain unclear, partly due to the lack of pre-disaster information. Based on monthly otter trawl surveys, we analyzed spatial and seasonal variability in univariate (total biomass, biomass of species vulnerable to exploitation, rarefied richness and evenness) and multivariate (species composition and trophic composition) indicators of fish biodiversity in the Doce river delta, eastern Brazil. We determined the independent and interactive effects of environmental, seasonal and spatial variables on species composition to test whether environmental alterations provoked by mine tailings could affect assemblage's organization. Most indicators present idiosyncratic spatiotemporal patterns, suggesting they have complementary roles in revealing changes in fish biodiversity. Environmental variables, including those affected by the Funda similar to o dam collapse such as turbidity, dissolved oxygen and pH, were much more important than seasonal and spatial predictors in explaining the variation in fish species composition. These findings highlight the potential from mine tailings to disrupt local ichthyofauna and indicate a preponderant role of environmental conditions in assemblage structuring. Given the lack of data prior to rupture, our results may be used as a baseline against which to assess temporal trends in fish biodiversity relative to changes detected in less disturbed estuarine and coastal assemblages.		[Vilar, Ciro Colodetti; Andrades, Ryan; Szablak, Flavio Toscano; Guabiroba, Helder Coelho; Bastos, Kathiani Victor; Santana de Lima, Layza Roxanne; Pereira Bastos, Pedro Garcia; Martins, Rebeka Ferreira; Amaral Rodrigues, Vitor Leonardo; Joyeux, Jean-Christophe] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Dept Oceanog & Ecol, Lab Ictiol, Av Fernando Ferrari 514, BR-29055460 Vitoria, ES, Brazil; [Pichler, Helen Audrey; Hostim-Silva, Mauricio] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Dept Ciencias Agr & Biol, Lab Ecol Peixes Marinhos, BR 101,Km 60, BR-29932540 Sao Mateus, ES, Brazil; [Hostim-Silva, Mauricio] Inst Meros Brasil, Rua Benjamin Cosntant 67,Conj 1104,10 Andar, Curitiba, PR, Brazil; [Vilar, Ciro Colodetti] Univ Fed Espirito Santo, Dept Oceanog & Ecol, Lab Ictiol, Av Fernando Ferrari 514, BR-29055460 Vitoria, ES, Brazil								6							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Toxicology	WOS:000750836100002		
J	Bardenhorst, Sven Kleine; Vital, Marius; Karch, Andre; Rubsamen, Nicole								Richness estimation in microbiome data obtained from denoising pipelines								COMPUTATIONAL AND STRUCTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY JOURNAL				20				508	520		10.1016/j.csbj.2021.12.036			2022	2022	The quantification of richness within a sample-either measured as the number of observed species or approximated by estimation-is a common first step in microbiome studies and is known to be highly dependent on sequencing depth, which itself is highly variable between samples. Rarefaction curves serve as a tool to investigate this dependency and it is often argued that after rarefying data-sub-sampling to an equal sequencing depth-richness estimates no longer depend on sequencing depth. However, the estimation of richness from data obtained by high throughput sequencing methods and processed by current bioinformatics pipelines may be subject to various sources of variation related to sequencing depth. Those that may confound inference based on richness estimates and cannot be solved by sub-sampling. We investigated how pipeline settings in DADA2 and deblur affect estimates of richness and showed that the use of rarefaction and sub-sampling is inappropriate when default pipeline settings are applied. Furthermore, we showed how independent sample-wise processing established spurious correlations between sequencing depth and richness estimations in data produced by DADA2 and how this problem can be solved by a pooled processing approach. (C) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Research Network of Computational and Structural Biotechnology.		[Bardenhorst, Sven Kleine; Karch, Andre; Rubsamen, Nicole] Univ Munster, Inst Epidemiol & Social Med, Munster, Germany; [Vital, Marius] Hannover Med Sch, Inst Med Microbiol & Hosp Hyg, Hannover, Germany; [Bardenhorst, Sven Kleine] Univ Munster, Inst Epidemiol & Social Med, Munster, Germany								13							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology	WOS:000819901300003		
J	Minasiewicz, Julita; Krawczyk, Emilia; Znaniecka, Joanna; Vincenot, Lucie; Zheleznaya, Ekaterina; Korybut-Orlowska, Joanna; Kull, Tiiu; Selosse, Marc-Andre								Weak population spatial genetic structure and low infraspecific specificity for fungal partners in the rare mycoheterotrophic orchid Epipogium aphyllum								JOURNAL OF PLANT RESEARCH				135	2			275	293		10.1007/s10265-021-01364-7			MAR 2022	2022	Some plants abandoned photosynthesis and developed full dependency on fungi for nutrition. Most of the so-called mycoheterotrophic plants exhibit high specificity towards their fungal partners. We tested whether natural rarity of mycoheterotrophic plants and usual small and fluctuating population size make their populations more prone to genetic differentiation caused by restricted gene flow and/or genetic drift. We also tested whether these genetic characteristics might in turn shape divergent fungal preferences. We studied the mycoheterotrophic orchid Epipogium aphyllum, addressing the joint issues of genetic structure of its populations over Europe and possible consequences for mycorrhizal specificity within the associated fungal taxa. Out of 27 sampled E. aphyllum populations, nine were included for genetic diversity assessment using nine nuclear microsatellites and plastid DNA. Population genetic structure was inferred based on the total number of populations. Individuals from 17 locations were included into analysis of genetic identity of mycorrhizal fungi of E. aphyllum based on barcoding by nuclear ribosomal DNA. Epipogium aphyllum populations revealed high genetic diversity (uHe = 0.562) and low genetic differentiation over vast distances (F-ST = 0.106 for nuclear microsatellites and F-ST = 0.156 for plastid DNA). Bayesian clustering analyses identified only two genetic clusters, with a high degree of admixture. Epipogium aphyllum genets arise from panmixia and display locally variable, but relatively high production of ramets, as shown by a low value of rarefied genotypic richness (R-r = 0.265). Epipogium aphyllum genotype control over partner selection was negligible as (1) we found ramets from a single genetic individual associated with up to 68% of the known Inocybe spp. associating with the plant species, (2) and partner identity did not show any geographic structure. The absence of mosaicism in the mycorrhizal specificity over Europe may be linked to preferential allogamous habit of E. aphyllum and significant gene flow, which tend to promote host generalism.		[Minasiewicz, Julita; Krawczyk, Emilia; Korybut-Orlowska, Joanna; Selosse, Marc-Andre] Univ Gdansk, Fac Biol, Dept Plant Taxon & Nat Conservat, Ul Wita Stwosza 59, PL-80308 Gdansk, Poland; [Znaniecka, Joanna] Univ Gdansk, Intercollegiate Fac Biotechnol, Abrahama 58, PL-80307 Gdansk, Poland; [Znaniecka, Joanna] Med Univ Gdansk, Abrahama 58, PL-80307 Gdansk, Poland; [Vincenot, Lucie] UNIROUEN, Normandie Univ, INRAE, ECODIV, F-76000 Rouen, France; [Zheleznaya, Ekaterina] Peoples Friendship Univ Russia, Podolskoye Shosse 8-5, Moscow 115093, Russia; [Zheleznaya, Ekaterina] Timiryazev State Biol Museum, Malaya Gruzinskaya 15, Moscow 123242, Russia; [Kull, Tiiu] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Tartu, Estonia; [Selosse, Marc-Andre] Sorbonne Univ, CNRS, Inst Systemat Evolut Biodiversite ISYEB, EPHE,Museum Natl Hist Nat, 57 Rue Cuvier,CP 39, F-75005 Paris, France; [Minasiewicz, Julita] Univ Gdansk, Fac Biol, Dept Plant Taxon & Nat Conservat, Ul Wita Stwosza 59, PL-80308 Gdansk, Poland								2							Plant Sciences	WOS:000739789500001		
J	Saeedi, Hanieh; Brandt, Angelika; Jacobsen, Nils L.								BIODIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF ISOPODA AND POLYCHAETA ALONG THE NORTHWESTERN PACIFIC OCEAN AND THE ARCTIC OCEAN								BIODIVERSITY INFORMATICS				17				10	26					2022	2022	The northwestern Pacific Ocean is one of the hotspots of species richness and one of the high endemicity areas of the World Ocean. However, large-scale biodiversity patterns of major deep-sea taxa such as Isopoda and Polychacta are still poorly studied. The goal of this research is to study the distribution, biodiversity, and community composition of Isopoda and Polychaeta (including Siboglinidae and Echiura) across the northwestern Pacific Ocean and the adjacent Arctic Ocean. The study area was divided into equal-sized hexagonal cells (c. 700,000 km(2)), ecoregions, 5 degrees latitudinal bands, and 200 m depth intervals as unit of analysis. Our results revealed that the area around the Philippines and the Laptev Sea had the highest isopod and polychaete's species richness compared to the other geographic regions of our study, with a latitudinal decline of species richness in shallow waters in both taxa. In the deep sea, maximum species richness increased towards the temperate latitudes. Gamma species richness (number of species per 200 m depth interval) also declined with depth. Rarefied species richness of isopods peaked around 5000 m depth. Rarefaction curves demonstrated a great potential for undiscovered richness across 5 degrees latitudinal bands and depth intervals. In shallow waters, polychaetes with a pelagic larval phase had a wider distribution range compared to brooding isopods, but, in the deep sea, isopods had slightly wider distribution ranges compared to polychaetes. These results thus demonstrated that shallow water taxa with pelagic larvae and polychaete species with a wide vertical distribution range could potentially invade higher latitudes, such as species from the Northwest Pacific invading the Arctic Ocean under the rapid climate change and catastrophic reduction of sea ice cover. These changes might dramatically change the benthic communities of the Arctic Ocean and management of such should take an adaptive approach and apply measures that take potential extension and invasion of species into account.		[Saeedi, Hanieh; Brandt, Angelika] Senckenherg Res Inst, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Saeedi, Hanieh; Brandt, Angelika] Nat Hist Museum, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Saeedi, Hanieh; Brandt, Angelika] Dept Marine Zool, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Brandt, Angelika; Jacobsen, Nils L.] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Ecol Divers & Evolut, D-60438 Frankfurt, Germany; [Saeedi, Hanieh] Senckenherg Res Inst, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Saeedi, Hanieh] Nat Hist Museum, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Saeedi, Hanieh] Dept Marine Zool, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany								4							Biodiversity Conservation; Mathematics, Interdisciplinary Applications	WOS:000766841500002		
J	Harris, Brittany; Freidenreich, Ariel; Betancourt, Eric; Jayachandran, Krishnaswarmy								Short-term vegetation responses to the first prescribed burn in an urban pine rockland preserve								FIRE ECOLOGY				17	1					31	10.1186/s42408-021-00116-1			NOV 5 2021	2021	Background Preserving fire-dependent ecosystems can mitigate biodiversity loss from urbanization, but prescribing fire is challenging near human habitation. Consequently, dereliction of fire-dependent forests is widespread in urban fragments. Natural disturbance-based management, like prescribing fire, is gaining global acceptance, yet it is unclear what affects prolonged exclusion have on the initial regeneration of isolated plant communities immediately after fire is reintroduced. We took advantage of the first prescribed low-intensity burn on a university pine rockland nature preserve in South Florida, USA, to gain insight. We measured the changes in plant community composition and vegetation cover 1 week before the prescribed burn, and again 1, 2, and 14 weeks after to assess the early and short-term stages of recovery. Results The fire consumed substantial leaf litter, surface fuels, and canopy leaves, increasing sunlight availability to the understory and exposing bare ground. Many woody plants perished within a week post-burn, particularly invasive shrubs; however, germinating and resprouting plant growth were rapid. By 14 weeks, vegetation covered more of the ground than before the burn, although the upper canopy remained relatively open. Rarefied species richness was recovered by 14 weeks but did not exceed pre-burn levels. Invasive species richness was also maintained post-burn. Despite no overall changes in the community structure, our correspondence analysis and analysis of similarity of the plant community suggest high species turnover from the pre-burn to the final community surveyed, with an intermediate turnover in between. Conclusion The endangered pine rockland ecosystem, like many fire-dependent ecosystems, is threatened by habitat loss and fire suppression. Managing urban preserves with periodic burns is essential for supporting habitat for endemic species while decreasing demands for manual and time-intensive maintenance. Our study demonstrates that seedling recruitment from early plantings of native species can contribute significantly and immediately to restoration efforts in a fire-excluded urban preserve; however, many changes were ephemeral. Supplemental burns are likely necessary to further reduce vegetation density and sustain changes to the community composition.		[Harris, Brittany] Florida Int Univ, Inst Environm, Dept Biol Sci, CASE 151,11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Freidenreich, Ariel; Betancourt, Eric] Florida Int Univ, Dept Earth & Environm, CASE 159,11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Jayachandran, Krishnaswarmy] Florida Int Univ, Dept Earth & Environm, AHC5-383,11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Harris, Brittany] Florida Int Univ, Inst Environm, Dept Biol Sci, CASE 151,11200 SW 8th St, Miami, FL 33199 USA								1							Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000714916200001		
J	Cale, Jonathan A.; Scott, Natalie; Pec, Gregory J.; Landhausser, Simon M.; Karst, Justine								Choices on sampling, sequencing, and analyzing DNA influence the estimation of community composition of plant fungal symbionts								APPLICATIONS IN PLANT SCIENCES				9	9-10					e11449	10.1002/aps3.11449			SEP 2021	2021	Plant root symbionts, namely mycorrhizal fungi, can be characterized using a variety of methods, but most of these rely on DNA. While Sanger sequencing still fulfills particular research objectives, next-generation sequencing currently dominates the field, thus understanding how the two methods differ is important for identifying both opportunities and limitations to characterizing fungal communities. In addition to testing sequencing methods, we also examined how roots and soils may yield different fungal communities and how disturbance may affect those differences. We sequenced DNA from ectomycorrhizal fungi colonizing roots of Pinus banksiana and found that operational taxonomic unit richness was higher, and compositional variance lower, for Illumina MiSeq-sequenced communities compared to Sanger-sequenced communities. We also found that fungal communities associated with roots were distinct in composition compared to those associated with soils and, moreover, that soil-associated fungi were more clustered in composition than those of roots. Finally, we found community dissimilarity between roots and soils was insensitive to disturbance; however, rarefying read counts had a sizeable influence on trends in fungal richness. Although interest in mycorrhizal communities is typically focused on the abiotic and biotic filters sorting fungal species, our study shows that the choice of methods to sample, sequence, and analyze DNA can also influence the estimation of community composition.		[Cale, Jonathan A.; Scott, Natalie; Pec, Gregory J.; Landhausser, Simon M.; Karst, Justine] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, 442 Earth Sci Bldg, Edmonton, AB T6G 2E3, Canada; [Pec, Gregory J.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Biol, Kearney, NE 68849 USA; [Pec, Gregory J.] Univ Nebraska, Dept Biol, Kearney, NE 68849 USA								3							Plant Sciences	WOS:000711847400001		
J	Thompson, Amibeth; Frenzel, Mark; Schweiger, Oliver; Musche, Martin; Groth, Till; Roberts, Stuart P. M.; Kuhlmann, Michael; Knight, Tiffany M.								Pollinator sampling methods influence community patterns assessments by capturing species with different traits and at different abundances								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				132						108284	10.1016/j.ecolind.2021.108284			DEC 2021	2021	In order to synthesize changes in pollinating insect communities across space and time, it is necessary to understand whether, and how, sampling methods influence assessments of community patterns. We compared how two common sampling methods-yellow combined flight traps and net sampling-influence our understanding of the species richness, abundance and composition of wild bees and hoverflies, and addressed whether these patterns resulted from potentially biased sampling of individuals or species with different types of functional traits. We sampled bee and hoverfly communities in six sites over three seasons in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. We captured more species and individuals of bees with traps and more species and individuals of hoverflies with net sampling. However, rarefied richness results were less dramatic between the sampling methods for bees and were not different between the sampling methods for hoverflies. Thus, differences in species richness across sampling methods were mostly due to differences in the number of individuals captured in the different methods. We captured more small-sized bees and hoverflies with traps. We tested if the different methods collected individuals and species with different functional traits, such as nesting preferences, sociality and flower specialization for bees and floral preference, migratory status and habitat preference for hoverflies. For most traits, we collected more individuals but not more species with a certain trait in the different methods. This was mainly due to a high abundance of one species being collected in the different methods. These results suggest that the best methodology depends on the aim of the survey, and that the methods cannot be easily combined into synthesis research. Our results have implications for the development of monitoring schemes for pollinators and for synthesis of trends that can identify threats to pollinators and inform research of pollinator conservation strategies.		[Thompson, Amibeth; Knight, Tiffany M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Biol, Kirchtor 1, D-06108 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Frenzel, Mark; Schweiger, Oliver; Musche, Martin; Knight, Tiffany M.] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Community Ecol, Theodor Lieser Str 4, D-06120 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Thompson, Amibeth; Schweiger, Oliver; Knight, Tiffany M.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Puschstr 4, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Groth, Till] Univ Leipzig, Fac Econ & Management Sci, Grimma Str 12, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Roberts, Stuart P. M.] Univ Reading, Ctr Agrienvironm Res, Sch Agr Policy & Dev, Reading RG6 6AR, Berks, England; [Kuhlmann, Michael] Univ Kiel, Zool Museum, Hegewischstr 3, D-24105 Kiel, Germany; [Kuhlmann, Michael] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, England; [Thompson, Amibeth] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Biol, Kirchtor 1, D-06108 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Thompson, Amibeth] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Puschstr 4, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany								8							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000710437100006		
J	Rabelo, Rafael M.; Pereira, Geanne C. N.; Valsecchi, Joao; Magnusson, William E.								The Role of River Flooding as an Environmental Filter for Amazonian Butterfly Assemblages								FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				9						693178	10.3389/fevo.2021.693178			AUG 30 2021	2021	Amazonian flooded (varzea) and upland (terra firme) forests harbor distinct assemblages of most taxonomic groups. These differences are mainly attributed to flooding, which may affect directly or indirectly the persistence of species. Here, we compare the abundance, richness and composition of butterfly assemblages in varzea and terra firme forests, and evaluate whether environmental gradients between and within these forest types can be used to predict patterns of assemblage structure. We found that both total abundance and number of species per plot are higher in varzea than in terra firme forests. Varzea assemblages had a higher dominance of abundant species than terra firme assemblages, in which butterfly abundances were more equitable. Rarefied species richness for varzea and terra firme forests was similar. There was a strong turnover in species composition from varzea to terra firme forests associated with environmental change between these forest types, but with little evidence for an effect of the environmental gradients within forest types. Despite a smaller total area in the Amazon basin, less defined vegetation strata and the shorter existence over geological time of floodplain forests, Nymphalid-butterfly assemblages were not more species-poor in varzea forests than in unflooded forests. We highlight the role of flooding as a primary environmental filter in Amazonian floodplain forests, which strongly determines the composition of butterfly assemblages.		[Rabelo, Rafael M.; Magnusson, William E.] Natl Inst Amazonian Res INPA, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Rabelo, Rafael M.; Pereira, Geanne C. N.; Valsecchi, Joao] Inst Desenvolvimento Sustentavel Mamiraua, Grp Pesquisa Ecol Vertebrados Terrestres, Tefe, Brazil; [Pereira, Geanne C. N.] Univ Estadual Santa Cruz, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Conservacao Biodiversidad, Ilheus, BA, Brazil; [Valsecchi, Joao] Rede Pesquisa Diversidade Conservacao & Uso Fauna, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Magnusson, William E.] Natl Inst Amazonian Res INPA, Coordenacao Pesquisa Biodiversidade, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Rabelo, Rafael M.] Natl Inst Amazonian Res INPA, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Rabelo, Rafael M.] Inst Desenvolvimento Sustentavel Mamiraua, Grp Pesquisa Ecol Vertebrados Terrestres, Tefe, Brazil								4							Ecology	WOS:000697888000001		
J	Lento, Jennifer; Culp, Joseph M.; Levenstein, Brianna; Aroviita, Jukka; Baturina, Maria A.; Bogan, Daniel; Brittain, John E.; Chin, Krista; Christoffersen, Kirsten S.; Docherty, Catherine; Friberg, Nikolai; Ingimarsson, Finnur; Jacobsen, Dean; Lau, Danny Chun Pong; Loskutova, Olga A.; Milner, Alexander; Mykra, Heikki; Novichkova, Anna A.; Olafsson, Jon S.; Schartau, Ann Kristin; Shaftel, Rebecca; Goedkoop, Willem								Temperature and spatial connectivity drive patterns in freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity across the Arctic								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				67	1			159	175		10.1111/fwb.13805			JAN 2022	2022	Warming in the Arctic is predicted to change freshwater biodiversity through loss of unique taxa and northward range expansion of lower latitude taxa. Detecting such changes requires establishing circumpolar baselines for diversity, and understanding the primary drivers of diversity. We examined benthic macroinvertebrate diversity using a circumpolar dataset of >1,500 Arctic lake and river sites. Rarefied alpha diversity within catchments was assessed along latitude and temperature gradients. Community composition was assessed through region-scale analysis of beta diversity and its components (nestedness and turnover), and analysis of biotic-abiotic relationships. Rarefied alpha diversity of lakes and rivers declined with increasing latitude, although more strongly across mainland regions than islands. Diversity was strongly related to air temperature, with the lowest diversity in the coldest catchments. Regional dissimilarity was highest when mainland regions were compared with islands, suggesting that connectivity limitations led to the strongest dissimilarity. High contributions of nestedness indicated that island regions contained a subset of the taxa found in mainland regions. High Arctic rivers and lakes were predominately occupied by Chironomidae and Oligochaeta, whereas Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera taxa were more abundant at lower latitudes. Community composition was strongly associated with temperature, although geology and precipitation were also important correlates. The strong association with temperature supports the prediction that warming will increase Arctic macroinvertebrate diversity, although low diversity on islands suggests that this increase will be limited by biogeographical constraints. Long-term harmonised monitoring across the circumpolar region is necessary to detect such changes to diversity and inform science-based management.		[Lento, Jennifer; Levenstein, Brianna] Univ New Brunswick, Canadian Rivers Inst, Fredericton, NB, Canada; [Lento, Jennifer; Levenstein, Brianna] Univ New Brunswick, Dept Biol, Fredericton, NB, Canada; [Culp, Joseph M.] Environm & Climate Change Canada, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Culp, Joseph M.] Wilfrid Laurier Univ, Cold Reg Res Ctr, Waterloo, ON, Canada; [Aroviita, Jukka; Mykra, Heikki] Finnish Environm Inst, Freshwater Ctr, Oulu, Finland; [Baturina, Maria A.; Loskutova, Olga A.] Russian Acad Sci, Inst Biol, Komi Sci Ctr, Ural Branch, Syktyvkar, Russia; [Bogan, Daniel; Shaftel, Rebecca] Univ Alaska Anchorage, Alaska Ctr Conservat Sci, Anchorage, AK USA; [Brittain, John E.] Norwegian Water Resources & Energy Directorate, Oslo, Norway; [Brittain, John E.] Univ Oslo, Nat Hist Museum, Oslo, Norway; [Chin, Krista] Govt Northwest Terr, Cumulat Impact Monitoring Program, Yellowknife, NT, Canada; [Christoffersen, Kirsten S.; Friberg, Nikolai; Jacobsen, Dean] Univ Copenhagen, Dept Biol, Freshwater Biol Sect, Copenhagen, Denmark; [Docherty, Catherine; Milner, Alexander] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Friberg, Nikolai] Norwegian Inst Water Res, Oslo, Norway; [Friberg, Nikolai] Univ Leeds, Sch Geog, Water Leeds, Leeds, W Yorkshire, England; [Ingimarsson, Finnur] Nat Hist Museum Kopavogur, Kopavogur, Iceland; [Lau, Danny Chun Pong] Umea Univ, Climate Impacts Res Ctr, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Abisko, Sweden; [Novichkova, Anna A.] Moscow MV Lomonosov State Univ, Biol Fac, Dept Gen Ecol & Hydrobiol, Moscow, Russia; [Novichkova, Anna A.] Fed State Budget Inst State Nat Reserve Wrangel I, Pevek, Russia; [Olafsson, Jon S.] Marine & Freshwater Res Inst, Reykjavik, Iceland; [Schartau, Ann Kristin] Norwegian Inst Nat Res, Oslo, Norway; [Goedkoop, Willem] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Aquat Sci & Assessment, Uppsala, Sweden; [Goedkoop, Willem] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Aquat Sci & Assessment, Uppsala, Sweden								15							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000690724300001		
J	Cardoso de Oliveira, Carlos Delano; Durigan, Giselda; Putz, Francis Edward								Thinning temporarily stimulates tree regeneration in a restored tropical forest								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				171						106390	10.1016/j.ecoleng.2021.106390			NOV 2021	2021	When an ecosystem undergoing restoration does not follow the desired trajectory, management interventions may be warranted. Where the initial steps towards restoration include tree planting at high densities, reduction of stand basal area (BA) by overstory thinning is a potential adaptive management tool to stimulate natural regeneration, although it can also damage young plants. We ask how tree regeneration in a restored tropical forest responds to different intensities of thinning. We applied two intensities of thinning to a 22-yr-old restored forest in southeastern Brazil and then sampled seedlings and saplings before and over an eight year period after thinning; unthinned plots were retained as controls. Thinning impacts on the woody understory were negligible, far below annual mortality in control plots. Positive responses to thinning were stronger in the treatment with low remaining basal area (ca. 30% below the reference forests), with increases in seedling density, numbers of recruits, and seedling-to-sapling and sapling-to-tree transitions. Understory dynamics were clearly intensified by gap opening, with a pulse of natural regeneration in the first years after thinning. These changes, however, were not simultaneous and did not usually persist over time. Rarefied richness of the understory increased over time after all treatments and changes in species composition of saplings were enhanced by thinning. Our study gives support to selective timber harvests from restored tropical forests insofar as thinning did not threaten the understory and stimulated natural regeneration. Frequency and intensity of thinning operations, however, should be locally adjusted based on monitoring data.		[Cardoso de Oliveira, Carlos Delano; Durigan, Giselda] Univ Estadual Paulista, Fac Ciencias Agron, Dept Ciencia Florestal Solos & Ambiente, Ave Univ 3780, BR-18610034 Botucatu, SP, Brazil; [Durigan, Giselda] Inst Pesquisas Ambientais, Floresta Estadual Assis, Caixa Postal 104, BR-19802300 Assis, SP, Brazil; [Putz, Francis Edward] Univ Florida, Dept Biol, POB 118526, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Cardoso de Oliveira, Carlos Delano] Univ Estadual Paulista, Fac Ciencias Agron, Dept Ciencia Florestal Solos & Ambiente, Ave Univ 3780, BR-18610034 Botucatu, SP, Brazil								7							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000694948100014		
J	Miller-ter Kuile, Ana; Apigo, Austen; Young, Hillary S.								Effects of consumer surface sterilization on diet DNA metabarcoding data of terrestrial invertebrates in natural environments and feeding trials								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				11	17			12025	12034		10.1002/ece3.7968			SEP 2021	2021	DNA metabarcoding is an emerging tool used to quantify diet in environments and consumer groups where traditional approaches are unviable, including small-bodied invertebrate taxa. However, metabarcoding of small taxa often requires DNA extraction from full body parts (without dissection), and it is unclear whether surface contamination from body parts alters presumed diet presence or diversity. We examined four different measures of diet (presence, rarefied read abundance, richness, and species composition) for a terrestrial invertebrate consumer (the spider Heteropoda venatoria) both collected in its natural environment and fed an offered diet item in contained feeding trials using DNA metabarcoding of full body parts (opisthosomas). We compared diet from consumer individuals surface sterilized to remove contaminants in 10% commercial bleach solution followed by deionized water with a set of unsterilized individuals. We found that surface sterilization did not significantly alter any measure of diet for consumers in either a natural environment or feeding trials. The best-fitting model predicting diet detection in feeding trial consumers included surface sterilization, but this term was not statistically significant (beta = -2.3, p-value = .07). Our results suggest that surface contamination does not seem to be a significant concern in this DNA diet metabarcoding study for consumers in either a natural terrestrial environment or feeding trials. As the field of diet DNA metabarcoding continues to progress into new environmental contexts with various molecular approaches, we suggest ongoing context-specific consideration of the possibility of surface contamination.		[Miller-ter Kuile, Ana; Apigo, Austen; Young, Hillary S.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Ecol Evolut & Marine Biol, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Miller-ter Kuile, Ana] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Ecol Evolut & Marine Biol, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA								7							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000682986500001		
J	Kisten, Dalicia; Brinkerhoff, Jory; Tshilwane, Selaelo Ivy; Mukaratirwa, Samson								A Pilot Study on the Microbiome of <i>Amblyomma hebraeum</i> Tick Stages Infected and Non-Infected with <i>Rickettsia africae</i>								PATHOGENS				10	8					941	10.3390/pathogens10080941			AUG 2021	2021	Variation in tick microbiota may affect pathogen acquisition and transmission but for many vector species, including Amblyomma hebraeum, components and determinants of the microbiome are unidentified. This pilot study aimed to determine baseline microbial community within A. hebraeum nymphs infected- and non-infected with Rickettsia africae from the environment, and within adult ticks infected- and non-infected with R. africae collected from cattle sampled from two locations in the Eastern Cape province of South Africa. Adult A. hebraeum ticks (N = 13) and A. hebraeum nymph (N = 15) preliminary screened for R. africae were randomly selected and subjected to Illumina sequencing targeting the v3-v4 hypervariable regions of the 16S rRNA gene. No significant difference in microbial community composition, as well as rarefied OTU richness and diversity were detected between adults and nymphs. Nymphs showed a higher richness of bacterial taxa indicating blood-feeding could have resulted in loss of microbial diversity during the moulting stage from nymph to adult. Core OTUs that were in at least 50% of nymphs and adults negative and positive for Rickettsia at 1% minimum relative abundance were Rickettsia, Coxiella and Ruminococcaceae UCG-005 with a single genus Arsenophonus occurring only in nymphs negative for Rickettsia. Ehrlichia spp. was present in only four nymphal ticks positive for Rickettsia. Interestingly, Rickettsia aeschlimannii was found in one nymph and one adult, indicating the first ever detection of the species in A. hebraeum. Furthermore, A. hebraeum harboured a Coxiella-like endosymbiont, which should be investigated further as Coxiella may affect the viability and transmission of other organisms.		[Kisten, Dalicia; Brinkerhoff, Jory; Tshilwane, Selaelo Ivy; Mukaratirwa, Samson] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Coll Agr Engn & Sci, Biol Sci Sect, Sch Life Sci, Westville Campus, ZA-4000 Durban, South Africa; [Brinkerhoff, Jory] Univ Richmond, Dept Biol, Richmond, VA 23173 USA; [Mukaratirwa, Samson] Ross Univ, Sch Vet Med, Hlth Ctr Zoonoses & Trop Vet Med 1, Basseterre 42123, St Kitts & Nevi; [Mukaratirwa, Samson] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Coll Agr Engn & Sci, Biol Sci Sect, Sch Life Sci, Westville Campus, ZA-4000 Durban, South Africa; [Mukaratirwa, Samson] Ross Univ, Sch Vet Med, Hlth Ctr Zoonoses & Trop Vet Med 1, Basseterre 42123, St Kitts & Nevi								1							Microbiology	WOS:000690008800001		
J	Gooriah, Leana; Blowes, Shane A.; Sagouis, Alban; Schrader, Julian; Karger, Dirk N.; Kreft, Holger; Chase, Jonathan M.								Synthesis reveals that island species-area relationships emerge from processes beyond passive sampling								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				30	10			2119	2131		10.1111/geb.13361			OCT 2021	2021	Aim The island species-area relationship (ISAR) quantifies how the number of species increases as the area of an island or island-like habitat gets larger and is one of the most general patterns in ecology. However, studies that measure the ISAR often confound variation in sampling methodology and analyses, precluding appropriate syntheses of its underlying mechanisms. Most ISAR studies use only presence-absence data at the whole-island scale, whereas we planned to use a framework that applies individual-based rarefaction to synthesize whether and how the ISAR differs from the null expectation of the passive sampling hypothesis. Location Five hundred and five islands from 34 different archipelagos across the world, including oceanic islands, lake islands and forest islands. Major taxa studied Local assemblages of plants, invertebrates, herpetofauna, birds and mammals. Methods We collated local-scale species abundance data from multiple archipelagos (median of 12 islands per study) and used a rarefaction-based approach to synthesize the relationship between island size and (1) sample effort-controlled rarefied species richness, or (2) an effective number of species derived from the probability of interspecific encounter (an index of community evenness). Results When we applied rarefaction to control for sampling effort, the numbers of species and their relative abundances across all studies differed from the passive sampling hypothesis. Our measure of evenness also increased with island size, suggesting that the disproportionate effects we observed influenced both rarer and more common species. We found few associations between the slope of this effect and island type or taxon, but we did find that island archipelagos with greater elevational heterogeneity also deviated more from the null expectation than those with less heterogeneity. Main conclusions Using a synthetic approach across island archipelagos, we reject the null expectation that passive sampling causes the ISAR and instead suggest that ecological mechanisms leading to disproportionate (non-random) effects on larger relative to smaller islands are predominant.		[Gooriah, Leana; Blowes, Shane A.; Sagouis, Alban; Chase, Jonathan M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv Halle Jena, Halle, Saale, Germany; [Gooriah, Leana; Blowes, Shane A.; Sagouis, Alban; Chase, Jonathan M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Dept Comp Sci, Halle, Saale, Germany; [Schrader, Julian; Kreft, Holger] Univ Gottingen, Dept Biodivers Macroecol & Biogeog, Gottingen, Germany; [Schrader, Julian] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Karger, Dirk N.] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Chase, Jonathan M.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Puschstr 4, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany								13							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000676108400001		
J	Srivastava, Jyoti; Manjunatha, Busnur Rachotappa; Balakrishna, Keshava; Prajith, A.; Manjunatha, H. V.; Jose, Jithin; Kumar, Naveen								Quantitative pollen-based reconstruction of the vegetation diversity in response to the late-Holocene climate change near Karwar, south-west coast of India								QUATERNARY INTERNATIONAL				599				95	106		10.1016/j.quaint.2021.03.026			OCT 20 2021	2021	In low latitude regions, due to impact of abrupt climate change/human interference, significant changes in vegetation, particularly the destruction of the highly fragile mangrove ecosystem has been noticed in different tropical areas of the world. In this study, a sediment core collected from the Kali Estuary has been used to determine the vegetation distribution of the Western Ghats since the late Holocene. Pollen and magnetic susceptibility data have been used as proxies to achieve objectives of the study. There has been a dramatic decrease in mangroves, evergreen (tree taxa) and deciduous forest pollens and the abundance of herbaceous/savanna type grassland pollen over the past 3.5 ka. This is supported by the significant decrease of the low-frequency magnetic susceptibility (chi lf) of the core reflecting the decrease in the summer monsoon rainfall. Therefore, the post-3.5 ka time period marks the beginning of the recolonization of vegetation. Rarefied diversity pattern plots were used to evaluate abundance and evenness in the pollen data as a result of the late-Holocene climate change. A significant increase in the diversity of herbaceous/savanna grassland taxa in the post-3.5 ka sequence of the core indicates the regional expansion of the agriculture in the Kali River basin. In contrast, the reduction in the taxonomic diversity of mangroves and arboreal taxa implies less-conducive environmental conditions for their growth, with further reduction due to anthropogenic interference. The magnetic susceptibility of the core measured at one cm interval indicates the general decrease in the intensity of the summer monsoon rainfall.		[Srivastava, Jyoti] Birbal Sahni Inst Palaeosci, 53 Univ Rd, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Manjunatha, Busnur Rachotappa; Prajith, A.; Manjunatha, H. V.; Jose, Jithin; Kumar, Naveen] Mangalore Univ, Dept Marine Geol, Mangalagangothri 574199, Karnataka, India; [Balakrishna, Keshava] Manipal Acad Higher Educ, Manipal Inst Technol, Dept Civil Engn, Manipal 576104, India; [Srivastava, Jyoti] Natl Ctr Polar & Ocean Res, Headland Sada, Vasco da Gama 403804, Goa, India								5							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000674601600004		
J	Peterson, Kathryn N. Riley; Browne, Robert A.; Erwin, Terry L.								Carabid beetle (Coleoptera, Carabidae) richness, diversity, and community structure in the understory of temporarily flooded and non-flooded Amazonian forests of Ecuador								ZOOKEYS					1044			831	876	EE982C93-25DD-4104-9F5C-3383B7459EE8	10.3897/zookeys.1044.62340			JUN 16 2021	2021	Although tropical regions harbor the greatest arthropod diversity on Earth, the majority of species are taxonomically and scientifically unknown. Furthermore, how they are organized into functional communities and distributed among habitats is mostly unstudied. Here we examine species richness, diversity, and community composition of carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) and compare them between flooded (FP) and non-flooded terra firme (TF) forests in the Yasuni area of Ecuador. The forest understory was sampled using flight intercept traps (FITs) and systematic hand collections at night in June and July 2011 and 2012, and FITs in October and November 2011. A total of 1,255 Carabidae representing 20 tribes, 54 genera, and 143 morphospecies was collected. Mean number of individuals and mean species richness did not differ significantly between FP and TF; however, numbers of Cicindelini (tiger beetles) and Pentagonicini were higher in TF forest while numbers of Lachnophorini and Scaritini were higher in FP forest. Overall, FP had significantly higher rarefied richness but extrapolation of rarefaction curves using the Chao1 nonparametric diversity estimator show that this difference may decrease with additional sampling. The inverse Simpson index was significantly higher for FP than TF forest. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination and dissimilarity coefficient values show that FP and TF forests maintain unique assemblages with minimal overlap in community composition. Given ongoing anthropogenic pressures, particularly petroleum extraction, and those resulting from climate change, a greater understanding of the richness, diversity and community assemblages of Yasuni rainforest are needed to better conserve the fauna of this megadiverse area of Amazonia.		[Peterson, Kathryn N. Riley; Browne, Robert A.] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Biol, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Peterson, Kathryn N. Riley] Pfeiffer Univ, Dept Nat Sci, Misenheimer, NC 28109 USA; [Erwin, Terry L.] Smithsonian Inst, Natl Museum Nat Hist, Dept Entomol, Washington, DC 20560 USA; [Peterson, Kathryn N. Riley] Wake Forest Univ, Dept Biol, Winston Salem, NC 27109 USA; [Peterson, Kathryn N. Riley] Pfeiffer Univ, Dept Nat Sci, Misenheimer, NC 28109 USA								1							Zoology	WOS:000685050900005		
J	Schlegel, Juerg; Hofstetter, Andreas								Butterflies of fragmented wet grassland in Western European lowland forests: Effects of vegetation, connectivity and plot size								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				110						103691	10.1016/j.actao.2020.103691			MAY 2021	2021	Habitat fragmentation, as a result of habitat loss and degradation, is widely considered to be a major threat to biodiversity. Our study focused on the distribution, diversity and abundance of butterflies on 22 isolated plots, mainly consisting of wet grassland. The plots were surrounded by deciduous mixed forests and located in an agglomeration area close to Lake Zurich, Switzerland. In addition to vegetation parameters, we assessed structural connectivity, adapted to least cost distances, using digital surface and terrain models. The resulting mixed-effects models revealed on plot level that (1) Molinia meadows had a significantly positive effect on rarefied Simpson butterfly diversity, (2) structural connectivity had a highly significant negative impact on rarefied Simpson butterfly diversity, whereas (3) plot size showed a significant positive impact, and (4) higher butterfly abundance was strongly related to blossom density. Across plot level, Molinia meadows had a higher rarefied butterfly species richness and rarefied Simpson butterfly diversity than any of the other habitat types evaluated. Among the endangered target species, the preferences of the Alcon Blue Phengaris alcon alcon were consistent with (1) to (3), while those of the Marsh Fritillary's E. aurinia aurinia were not. (2) is discussed with regards to the predominant influence of habitat type, vegetation and plot size, relativizing the effect of structural connectivity on butterfly communities in presumably resilient metapopulations. Ongoing targeted maintenance measures in the study area provide a promising basis for the sustainable conservation of local butterfly communities in isolated wet grassland plots.		[Schlegel, Juerg] Zurich Univ Appl Sci ZHAW, Inst Nat Resource Sci IUNR, CH-8820 Wadenswil, Switzerland; [Hofstetter, Andreas] Zurich Univ Appl Sci ZHAW, CH-8820 Wadenswil, Switzerland; [Schlegel, Juerg] Zurich Univ Appl Sci ZHAW, Inst Nat Resource Sci IUNR, CH-8820 Wadenswil, Switzerland								1							Ecology	WOS:000641035900014		
J	Tsafack, Noelline; Borges, Paulo A., V; Xie, Yingzhong; Wang, Xinpu; Fattorini, Simone								Emergent Rarity Properties in Carabid Communities From Chinese Steppes With Different Climatic Conditions								FRONTIERS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				9						603436	10.3389/fevo.2021.603436			APR 23 2021	2021	Species abundance distributions (SADs) are increasingly used to investigate how species community structure changes in response to environmental variations. SAD models depict the relative abundance of species recorded in a community and express fundamental aspects of the community structure, namely patterns of commonness and rarity. However, the influence of differences in environmental conditions on SAD characteristics is still poorly understood. In this study we used SAD models of carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) in three grassland ecosystems (desert, typical, and meadow steppes) in China. These ecosystems are characterized by different aridity conditions, thus offering an opportunity to investigate how SADs are influenced by differences in environmental conditions (mainly aridity and vegetation cover, and hence productivity). We used various SAD models, including the meta-community zero sum multinomial (mZSM), the lognormal (PLN) and Fisher's logseries (LS), and uni- and multimodal gambin models. Analyses were done at the level of steppe type (coarse scale) and for different sectors within the same steppe (fine scale). We found that the mZSM model provided, in general, the best fit at both analysis scales. Model parameters were influenced by the scale of analysis. Moreover, the LS was the best fit in desert steppe SAD. If abundances are rarefied to the smallest sample, results are similar to those without rarefaction, but differences in models estimates become more evident. Gambin unimodal provided the best fit with the lowest alpha-value observed in desert steppe and higher values in typical and meadow steppes, with results which were strongly affected by the scale of analysis and the use of rarefaction. Our results indicate that all investigated communities are adequately modeled by two similar distributions, the mZSM and the LS, at both scales of analyses. This indicates (1) that all communities are characterized by a relatively small number of species, most of which are rare, and (2) that the meta-communities at the large scale maintain the basic SAD shape of the local communities. The gambin multimodal models produced exaggerated alpha-values, which indicates that they overfit simple communities. Overall, Fisher's alpha, mZSM theta, and gambin alpha-values were substantially lower in the desert steppe and higher in the typical and meadow steppes, which implies a decreasing influence of environmental harshness (aridity) from the desert steppe to the typical and meadow steppes.		[Tsafack, Noelline; Xie, Yingzhong; Wang, Xinpu] Ningxia Univ, Sch Agr, Yinchuan, Ningxia, Peoples R China; [Tsafack, Noelline; Borges, Paulo A., V] Univ Acores, Fac Ciencias & Engn Ambiente, Azorean BiodWers Grp, cE3c Ctr Ecol Evolut & Environm Changes, Angra Do Heroismo, Portugal; [Fattorini, Simone] Univ LAquila, Dept Life Hlth & Environm Sci, Laquila, Italy; [Tsafack, Noelline] Ningxia Univ, Sch Agr, Yinchuan, Ningxia, Peoples R China; [Tsafack, Noelline] Univ Acores, Fac Ciencias & Engn Ambiente, Azorean BiodWers Grp, cE3c Ctr Ecol Evolut & Environm Changes, Angra Do Heroismo, Portugal								4							Ecology	WOS:000647670000001		
J	Kriegel, Peter; Fritze, Michael-Andreas; Thorn, Simon								Surface temperature and shrub cover drive ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) assemblages in short-rotation coppices								AGRICULTURAL AND FOREST ENTOMOLOGY				23	4			400	410		10.1111/afe.12441			NOV 2021	2021	Increasing demand for biomass has led to an on-going intensification of fuel wood plantations with possible negative effects on open land biodiversity. Hence, ecologists increasingly call for measures that reduce those negative effects on associated biodiversity. However, our knowledge about the efficiency of such measures remains scarce. We investigated the effects of gap implementation in short rotation coppices (SRCs) on carabid diversity and assemblage composition over 3 years, with pitfall traps in gaps, edges and interiors. In parallel, we quantified soil surface temperature, shrub- and herb cover. Edges had the highest number of species and abundances per trap, whereas rarefied species richness was significantly lower in short rotation coppice interiors than in other habitat types. Carabid community composition differed significantly between habitat types. The main environmental drivers were temperature for number of species and abundance and shrub cover for rarefied species richness. We found significantly higher rarefied species richness in gaps compared with interiors. Hence, we argue that gap implementation benefits overall diversity in short rotation coppices. Furthermore, the differences in species community composition between habitat types through increased species turnover support carabid diversity in short rotation coppices. These positive effects were largely attributed to microclimate conditions. However, to maintain positive effects, continuous management of herb layer might be necessary.		[Kriegel, Peter; Thorn, Simon] Univ Wurzburg, Bioctr, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Glashuttenstr 5, D-96181 Rauhenebrach, Germany; [Fritze, Michael-Andreas] Arbeitsgruppe Tierokol & Planung GmbH, Johann Strauss Str 22, D-70794 Filderstadt, Germany; [Kriegel, Peter] Univ Wurzburg, Bioctr, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Glashuttenstr 5, D-96181 Rauhenebrach, Germany								6							Entomology	WOS:000636855600001		
J	Kazyak, David C.; Lubinski, Barbara A.; Rash, Jacob M.; Johnson, Thomas C.; King, Timothy L.								Development of Genetic Baseline Information to Support the Conservation and Management of Wild Brook Trout in North Carolina								NORTH AMERICAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES MANAGEMENT				41	3			626	638		10.1002/nafm.10569			JUN 2021	2021	After centuries of declines, there is growing interest in conserving extant wild populations of Brook Trout Salvelinus fontinalis and reintroducing Brook Trout populations of native ancestry. A population genetic baseline can enhance conservation outcomes and promote restoration success. Consequently, it is important to document existing patterns of genetic variation across the landscape and translate these data into an approachable format for fisheries managers. We genotyped 9,507 Brook Trout representing 467 wild collections at 12 microsatellite loci to establish a genetic baseline for North Carolina, USA. Rarefied allelic richness (mean = 3.12) and observed heterozygosity (mean = 0.42), which reflect within-population diversity, were low to moderate relative to levels typically observed at higher latitudes. Effective population sizes (N-e) varied widely but were often very low (151 collections had an estimated N-e < 10). Despite decades of intensive stocking across the state, we found little to no evidence of hatchery introgression in most populations. Although genetic variation was significant at a variety of spatial scales (mean pairwise = FST ' 0.73), substantial genetic variation occurred between patches within individual watersheds. Analysis of molecular variance indicated that a substantial portion (28.5%) of the observed genetic variation was attributable to differences among populations, with additional genetic variation among hydrologic unit codes (HUCs; 16.0, 16.6, 12.1, and 9.4% of the overall variation among 12-, 10-, 8-, and 6-digit HUCs, respectively). We discuss a suite of potential applications for this type of genetic data to enhance management outcomes, such as conservation prioritization and selection of source stocks for reintroductions or genetic rescue.		[Kazyak, David C.; Lubinski, Barbara A.; King, Timothy L.] US Geol Survey, Leetown Sci Ctr, 11649 Leetown Rd, Kearneysville, WV 25430 USA; [Rash, Jacob M.; Johnson, Thomas C.] North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commiss, Inland Fisheries Div, 645 Fish Hatchery Rd, Marion, NC 28752 USA; [Kazyak, David C.] US Geol Survey, Leetown Sci Ctr, 11649 Leetown Rd, Kearneysville, WV 25430 USA								5							Fisheries	WOS:000635930800001		
J	Carrera, Lisa; Scarponi, Daniele; Martini, Fabio; Sarti, Lucia; Pavia, Marco								Mid-Late Pleistocene Neanderthal landscapes in southern Italy: Paleoecological contributions of the avian assemblage from Grotta del Cavallo, Apulia, southern Italy								PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY				567						110256	10.1016/j.palaeo.2021.110256			APR 1 2021	2021	We present a detailed paleoecologic analysis of avian assemblages from the Mousterian layers of the Middle Paleolithic Grotta del Cavallo site in southern Italy. Findings improve knowledge of the landscape that was exploited by Neanderthals. During the MIS 7, 6 and 3, the cave was surrounded by extensive grasslands and shrublands, locally interspersed by open woodland and rocky outcrops, whereas the coastal plain (currently underwater) hosted wetlands. Water bird taxa show an increase in population size during the cool-temperate climatic interval attributed to MIS 3, possibly linked to more humid conditions or a shorter distance between the wetland settings and the cave, compared to the previous glacial phase (MIS 6). In addition, coverage-based rarefied richness suggests higher avian diversity during MIS 3, which may reflect greater landscape heterogeneity due to the presence of wetland habitats. The tentative discovery of Branta leucopsis, together with several bird species currently found at higher altitudes, reinforces geochemically-derived palaeoclimate inferences of cooler than the present conditions. These assemblages also include the first fossil occurrence of Larus genei worldwide, the first Italian occurrence of Emberiza calandra, the oldest Italian occurrence of Podiceps nigricollis, and the occurrence of the rarely reported Sylvia cf. communis. Taphonomic analyses indicate that bone modifications are mainly due to physical syn- and post-depositional processes, and that the assemblage mainly accumulated through short-range physical transport and the feeding activities of nocturnal raptors.		[Carrera, Lisa; Scarponi, Daniele] Univ Bologna, Dipartimento Sci Biol Geol & Ambientali, Via Zamboni 67, I-40126 Bologna, Italy; [Martini, Fabio] Univ Firenze, Dipartimento Storia Archeol Geog Arte & Spettacol, Via S Egidio 21, I-50122 Florence, Italy; [Sarti, Lucia] Univ Siena, Dipartimento Sci Stor & Beni Culturali, Via Roma 56, I-53100 Siena, Italy; [Pavia, Marco] Univ Torino, Museo Geol & Paleontol, Dipartimento Sci Terra, Via Valperga Caluso 35, I-10125 Turin, Italy; [Carrera, Lisa; Scarponi, Daniele] Univ Bologna, Dipartimento Sci Biol Geol & Ambientali, Via Zamboni 67, I-40126 Bologna, Italy								4							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Paleontology	WOS:000636761000026		
J	Monteiro de Brito, Marcos Roberto; Lion, Marilia Bruzzi; Oliveira, Isabela Freitas; Cardoso, Marcio Zikan								Butterflies on the dry edge of the Atlantic Forest: water availability determines community structure at the Northern limit of Atlantic Forest								INSECT CONSERVATION AND DIVERSITY				14	4			476	491		10.1111/icad.12474			JUL 2021	2021	1. The composition of communities of fruit-feeding butterflies in the Brazilian Atlantic forest changes in response to landscape fragmentation and can be used as an indicator of habitat quality. Landscape fragmentation, aridity, and early signs of global warming at the northernmost distribution of this biome may impose extra challenges for species persistence. 2. We aim to clarify the drivers of fruit-feeding butterflies' metacommunity structure in the northernmost portion of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. We propose to disentangle consequences of habitat loss from fragmentation per se by using both habitat amount and patch scale metrics. 3. We sampled fruit-feeding butterflies in 15 forest fragments of up to similar to 30 ha during 1 year. We used fragment size, shape, distance to nearest perennial stream, Euclidean distance to nearest neighbour, forest habitat amount, proximity index, and the percentage of sugarcane within a buffer to elucidate patterns of species richness, abundance, and beta diversity. 4. A configuration metric, stream distance, was the only variable predicting metacommunity total abundance and richness: fragments farther from water had fewer species and individuals. However, forest habitat amount and sugar cane were important to rarefied richness and species replacement between fragments. 5. Our findings suggest that streams and associated riparian zones provide source populations for the butterfly metacommunities in this landscape, which fits the mass effect model. We also emphasise that small forest patches have high conservation value for persistence of butterfly populations, because each fragment preserves a substantial portion of the total species pool.		[Monteiro de Brito, Marcos Roberto; Lion, Marilia Bruzzi; Cardoso, Marcio Zikan] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Ecol, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Oliveira, Isabela Freitas] Inst Nacl Pesquisas Amazonia INPA, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Lion, Marilia Bruzzi] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Dept Ecol, Natal, RN, Brazil								1							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000618023100001		
J	Santana, Lucas Deziderio; Prado-Junior, Jamir A.; Ribeiro, Jose Hugo C.; Ribeiro, Miriana Araujo S.; Pereira, Kelly Marianne G.; Antunes, Kelly; Carvalho, Fabricio Alvim; van den Berg, Eduardo								Edge effects in forest patches surrounded by native grassland are also dependent on patch size and shape								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				482						118842	10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118842			FEB 15 2021	2021	Our knowledge of biodiversity responses to fragmentation comes from human-driven fragmentation processes. However, evaluating forest patches with natural edge can produce useful models to understand how the micro environmental gradient between forest edge and interior shapes the plant communities, regardless habitat loss. Here, we tested how forest edges and interiors differ in soil characteristics, communities' structure and diversity metrics, and the extent to which these differences are related to forest size and shape of patches. We present data of ten tropical montane cloud forest patches surrounded by native non-forest vegetation (highland grasslands) of southeast Brazil. In each forest, we established five plots right on the edge and five randomly distributed over the forest interior. Our dataset covers a total of 5495 trees, and the main findings showed that patches with natural edges are also influenced by the edge effect, affecting the structure, species composition and soil variables. We found that with the increase in distance from the forest edge, the soils became more acid, with greater accumulation of organic matter, phosphorus, silt and sand, in contrast, the content of total exchangeable bases and clay decreased. When accounting for the effect of patch size and shape in the relationships between forest habitat and the structural community metrics, tree density and upper 95-percentile stem diameter tended to be higher in larger patches. In contrast, aboveground biomass and median stem diameter were positively related to patch shape in forest interiors. In addition, species composition showed marked differences between habitats, but rarefied species richness and Fisher's diversity index were higher, in the interior, only in large patches. These results indicate that besides differences between forest habitats, with increasing patch size and circularity, the differences become more pronounced. We would like to highlight that in conservation and management decisions, peculiarities of each habitat must be taken into account, with techniques that assess the surrounding matrix (man-made or natural) and that consider the edge and the interior as distinct habitats.		[Santana, Lucas Deziderio] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Forest Sci, BR-37200900 Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Prado-Junior, Jamir A.] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Biol, BR-38400902 Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Jose Hugo C.] Fed Inst Southeast Minas Gerais, BR-36884036 Muriae, MG, Brazil; [Ribeiro, Miriana Araujo S.] Fed Univ Jequitinhonha & Mucuri Valley, Dept Forest Engn, BR-39100000 Diamantina, MG, Brazil; [Pereira, Kelly Marianne G.; van den Berg, Eduardo] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Ecol & Conservat, BR-37200900 Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Antunes, Kelly; Carvalho, Fabricio Alvim] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Dept Bot, BR-36036900 Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Santana, Lucas Deziderio] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Forest Sci, BR-37200900 Lavras, MG, Brazil								7							Forestry	WOS:000617951300009		
J	Roswell, Michael; Dushoff, Jonathan; Winfree, Rachael								A conceptual guide to measuring species diversity								OIKOS				130	3			321	338		10.1111/oik.07202			MAR 2021	2021	Three metrics of species diversity - species richness, the Shannon index and the Simpson index - are still widely used in ecology, despite decades of valid critiques leveled against them. Developing a robust diversity metric has been challenging because, unlike many variables ecologists measure, the diversity of a community often cannot be estimated in an unbiased way based on a random sample from that community. Over the past decade, ecologists have begun to incorporate two important tools for estimating diversity: coverage and Hill diversity. Coverage is a method for equalizing samples that is, on theoretical grounds, preferable to other commonly used methods such as equal-effort sampling, or rarefying datasets to equal sample size. Hill diversity comprises a spectrum of diversity metrics and is based on three key insights. First, species richness and variants of the Shannon and Simpson indices are all special cases of one general equation. Second, richness, Shannon and Simpson can be expressed on the same scale and in units of species. Third, there is no way to eliminate the effect of relative abundance from estimates of any of these diversity metrics, including species richness. Rather, a researcher must choose the relative sensitivity of the metric towards rare and common species, a concept which we describe as 'leverage.' In this paper we explain coverage and Hill diversity, provide guidelines for how to use them together to measure species diversity, and demonstrate their use with examples from our own data. We show why researchers will obtain more robust results when they estimate the Hill diversity of equal-coverage samples, rather than using other methods such as equal-effort sampling or traditional sample rarefaction.		[Roswell, Michael] Rutgers State Univ, Grad Program Ecol & Evolut, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Roswell, Michael; Winfree, Rachael] Rutgers State Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Nat Resources, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Roswell, Michael] Univ Maryland, Dept Entomol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Dushoff, Jonathan] McMaster Univ, Dept Biol, Hamilton, ON, Canada; [Roswell, Michael] Rutgers State Univ, Grad Program Ecol & Evolut, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Roswell, Michael] Rutgers State Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Nat Resources, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Roswell, Michael] Univ Maryland, Dept Entomol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								190							Ecology	WOS:000616349200001		
J	Neige, Pascal; Weis, Robert; Fara, Emmanuel								UPS AND DOWNS OF BELEMNITE DIVERSITY IN THE EARLY JURASSIC OF WESTERN TETHYS								PALAEONTOLOGY				64	2			263	283		10.1111/pala.12522			MAR 2021	2021	Although belemnites form a major clade of extinct cephalopods, the early stage of their diversification remains poorly known in time and space. Here we investigate the first diversification episodes of belemnites (order Belemnitida) using a new species-level database encompassing the Hettangian-Aalenian interval (Early Jurassic - earliest Middle Jurassic) and covering the Western Tethys. Rarefied richness shows a four-fold increase from the Planorbis chronozone to the Ibex chronozone, a strong decrease between the Margaritatus and Spinatum chronozones, followed by a drop in the Spinatum-Serpentinum interval that is coeval with the second-order Toarcian biological crisis. The Bifrons chronozone records a high richness that departs significantly from those of the surrounding chronozones. A last richness peak in the Dispansum chronozone precedes a decrease towards the Aalenian. Biogeographical analyses do not reveal any clear large-scale provincialism for belemnites, in sharp contrast with ammonoids. Such a long-term homogeneous spatial distribution of belemnites is probably due to: (1) the relatively poorly-documented fossil record of belemnites, especially in Mediterranean localities; and (2) contrasted dispersal abilities of belemnites compared to ammonoids over the studied time interval.		[Neige, Pascal; Fara, Emmanuel] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, UMR CNRS 6282, Biogeosci, 6 Blvd Gabriel, F-21000 Dijon, France; [Weis, Robert] Musee Natl Hist Nat, Sect Paleontol, 25 Rue Munster, L-2160 Luxembourg, Luxembourg; [Neige, Pascal] Univ Bourgogne Franche Comte, UMR CNRS 6282, Biogeosci, 6 Blvd Gabriel, F-21000 Dijon, France								10							Paleontology	WOS:000613308400001		
J	Sapsford, Sarah J.; Paap, Trudy; Hardy, Giles E. St J.; Burgess, Treena, I								Anthropogenic Disturbance Impacts Mycorrhizal Communities and Abiotic Soil Properties: Implications for an Endemic Forest Disease								FRONTIERS IN FORESTS AND GLOBAL CHANGE				3						593243	10.3389/ffgc.2020.593243			JAN 29 2021	2021	In forest ecosystems, habitat fragmentation negatively impacts stand structure and biodiversity; the resulting fragmented patches of forest have distinct, disturbed edge habitats that experience different environmental conditions than the interiors of the fragments. In southwest Western Australia, there is a large-scale decline of the keystone tree species Corymbia calophylla following fragmentation and land use change. These changes have altered stand structure and increased their susceptibility to an endemic fungal pathogen, Quambalaria coyrecup, which causes chronic canker disease especially along disturbed forest habitats. However, the impacts of fragmentation on belowground processes in this system are not well-understood. We examined the effects of fragmentation on abiotic soil properties and ectomycorrhizal (ECM) and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal communities, and whether these belowground changes were drivers of disease incidence. We collected soil from 17 sites across the distribution range of C. calophylla. Soils were collected across a gradient from disturbed, diseased areas to undisturbed, disease-free areas. We analysed soil nutrients and grew C. calophylla plants as a bioassay host. Plants were harvested and roots collected after 6 months of growth. DNA was extracted from the roots, amplified using fungal specific primers and sequenced using Illumina MiSeq. Concentrations of key soil nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium were much higher along the disturbed, diseased edges in comparison to undisturbed areas. Disturbance altered the community composition of ECM and AM fungi; however, only ECM fungal communities had lower rarefied richness and diversity along the disturbed, diseased areas compared to undisturbed areas. Accounting for effects of disturbance, ECM fungal diversity and leaf litter depth were highly correlated with increased disease incidence in C. calophylla. In the face of global change, increased virulence of an endemic pathogen has emerged in this Mediterranean-type forest.		[Sapsford, Sarah J.; Paap, Trudy; Hardy, Giles E. St J.; Burgess, Treena, I] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Climate Impacted Terr Ecosyst, Harry Butler Inst, Phytophthora Sci & Management, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Sapsford, Sarah J.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Christchurch, New Zealand; [Paap, Trudy] Univ Pretoria, Forestry & Agr Biotechnol Inst, Dept Biochem Genet & Microbiol, Pretoria, South Africa; [Sapsford, Sarah J.] Murdoch Univ, Ctr Climate Impacted Terr Ecosyst, Harry Butler Inst, Phytophthora Sci & Management, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Sapsford, Sarah J.] Univ Canterbury, Sch Biol Sci, Christchurch, New Zealand								8							Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000619560100001		
J	Andryushchenko, Y. O.								Taxonomic and ecological composition of the native groupings of the birds of the dry steppe zone of Ukraine								BIOSYSTEMS DIVERSITY				29	3			225	234		10.15421/012128			2021	2021	The classifications of the grouping of the birds reflect the faunistic or the ecological position of the species in certain habitats and landscapes. Most of them consider the species diversity of the birds of the studied regions in general, including synanthropic, invasive and widespread species. This approach prevents singling out the habitats which are important for supporting the existence of native (or autochtonous) species and their groupings. Native groupings of the birds in the dry steppe zone of Ukraine are almost not studied despite the rapid contraction in the range and population of most component species, especially Anthropoides virgo, Otis tarda, Tetrax tetrax and Burhinus oedicnemus. The definition of the taxonomic and the ecological composition of these grouping will help in understanding the strategy of the reproduction and the protection of native avifauna. In connection with this, the faunistic-topomorphic classification of native birds in the dry steppes zone of Ukraine according to the following scheme is proposed: ornithofaunistic complex (by priority landscapes and habitats) the place of the feeding (by priority substrate on/in which a species' diet is extracted) - the nesting place (by the priority substrate of the location of the nest for nesting individuals) - the place of rest (the priority substrate where non-nesting individuals rest). The classification is aimed at the definition of the general requirements of native birds and their groupings in terms of the landscapes and the habitats which provide the conditions for their preservation and the protection in the researched region. It has been determined that in the south of Ukraine 33 nesting species are dry-steppe autochthons (18.3% of nesting species of the region), of which 18 species form the ornithofaunistic complex of dry steppes (Buteo rufinus, Perdix perdix, Anthropoides virgo, Otis tarda, Tetrax tetrax, Burhinus oedicnemus, Glareola nordmanni, Galerida cristata, Calandrella cinerea, C. rufescens, Melanocorypha calandra, Anthus campestris, Motacilla feldegg, Saxicola rubetra, S. torquata, Oenanthe oenanthe, Oe. isabellina, Emberiza melanocephala), and 15 species form the complex of the sea coast (Phalacrocora. aristotelis, Phoenicopterus roseus, Tadorna ferruginea, T. tadorna, Mergus serrator, Charadrius alexandrinus, Recurvirostra avosetta, Larus ichthyaetus, L. melanocephalus, L. genei, L. cachinnans, L. michahellis, Gelochelidon nilotica, Hydroprogne caspia, Thalasseus sandvicensis). The above-mentioned species are mainly xerophiles (54.6% of species) and hygrophils (24.2% of species), and they are in the most threatened position because they feed, nest and rest mainly or exclusively on the soil surface. According to the proposed classification, native birds of dry steppes require: for xerophiles - areas of soil without vegetation or with rarefied low grass, which does not prevent birds from moving freely, searching and obtaining food, leading their chicks, looking over their territories; for hygrophiles - shallow water bodies with islands, surface vegetation, shallows, adjacent meadows and salt-marshes; for dendrophiles - single shrubs and trees or small groves; for most xerophiles and dendrophiles - fresh or slightly saline water bodies for drinking. Unfortunately, in the protected natural territories of the researched region, most native birds do not have this combination of the above-mentioned habitats, which are simultaneously suitable for feeding, nesting and resting.		[Andryushchenko, Y. O.] Schmalhausen Inst Zool, B Khmelnytskogo St 15, UA-01030 Kiev, Ukraine; [Andryushchenko, Y. O.] Schmalhausen Inst Zool, B Khmelnytskogo St 15, UA-01030 Kiev, Ukraine								0							Ecology	WOS:000711376100005		
J	Ortega, Jean C. G.; Bacani, Iussa; Dorado-Rodrigues, Taina F.; Strussmann, Christine; Fernandes, Izaias M.; Morales, Jenny; Mateus, Lucia; da Silva, Hugmar Pains; Penha, Jerry								Effects of urbanization and environmental heterogeneity on fish assemblages in small streams								NEOTROPICAL ICHTHYOLOGY				19	3					e210050	10.1590/1982-0224-2021-0050			2021	2021	The structure of freshwater assemblages may be driven directly by urbanization or indirectly by a reduction in environmental heterogeneity (EH). Disentangling the effects of urbanization and EH requires uncorrelated proxies of each of these factors. We assessed the effects of the degree of urbanization and EH on the structure of fish assemblages. We sampled fish in 45 streams located in the urban area of Cuiaba. We assessed the effects of urbanization and EH on rarefied fish species richness (S-rarefied), the local contribution to beta diversity (LCBD), and composition with linear models and distance-based redundancy analysis. Our indexes of urbanization and EH were not correlated. We found that both S-rarefied and the LCBD decreased with an increasing degree of urbanization, but were not associated with EH. We also noted that few native fish species abundances were associated with the EH. Serrapinnus microdon, S. calliurus, Hemigrammus tridens, and Astyanax lacustris were abundant in streams with a lower degree of urbanization. The non-native Poecilia reticulata was more abundant in streams with a higher degree of urbanization. Our results highlight that urbanization leads in negative impacts on fish assemblages, such as decreases in diversity and the dominance of non-native species.		[Ortega, Jean C. G.] Univ Fed Acre, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Manejo Recursos Nat, BR-364 Km 4,Campus Univ, BR-69915900 Rio Branco, AC, Brazil; [Bacani, Iussa] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Fac Med Vet, Av Fernando Correia da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Dorado-Rodrigues, Taina F.; Strussmann, Christine; Mateus, Lucia; Penha, Jerry] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Inst Biociencias, Ctr Biodiversidade, Av Fernando Correia da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Fernandes, Izaias M.] Univ Fed Rondonia, Lab Biodiversidade & Conservacao, Av Norte Sul 7300, BR-76940000 Rolim De Moura, RO, Brazil; [Morales, Jenny] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Inst Biociencias, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Conservacao Biodiversidad, Av Fernando Correia da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [da Silva, Hugmar Pains] Univ Fed Mato Grosso, Inst Biociencias, Lab Citogenet & Genet Anim, Av Fernando Correia da Costa 2367, BR-78060900 Cuiaba, MT, Brazil; [Ortega, Jean C. G.] Univ Fed Acre, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Manejo Recursos Nat, BR-364 Km 4,Campus Univ, BR-69915900 Rio Branco, AC, Brazil								7							Zoology	WOS:000710674600001		
J	Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela; Pinel, Celio da Silva; Rocha, Glaucio Pereira; Codeco, Claudia Torres; Honorio, Nildimar Alves								Diversity of mosquito (Diptera: Culicidae) vectors in a heterogeneous landscape endemic for arboviruses								ACTA TROPICA				212						105715	10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105715			DEC 2020	2020	Background: In Brazil and several countries in the Americas, where dengue, chikungunya and Zika are co circulating, there is a need to understand how different mosquito species relate to landscape and humans. Mosquito ecology and distribution, especially at finer spatial scales, are key factors to study since the relationship of mosquito communities to their habitats might have important consequences in the risk of disease transmission to humans. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diversity of resident culicids along heterogeneous landscapes in different endemic cities for dengue, chikungunya and Zika. Methods: Fourteen collection sites were randomly selected in six landscapes characterized as urban, periurban and rural along two endemic metropolitan cities in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Itaborai and Cachoeiras de Macacu, Rio de Janeiro. In each site, adult mosquito collections were performed using different traps and backpack aspiration. Collections took place during the rainy and dry seasons of 2015 and 2016. To measure diversity in each landscape, we generated species accumulation curves and used different indexes: rarefied species richness, Chao1-bc and ACE-1. Mosquito habitat segregation along different land use types was measured with a partial canonical correspondence analysis (pCCA). Generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) were used to model the probability of occurrence of the most abundant species along an Urban-Forest gradient. Results: A total of 13,462 adult mosquitoes from 10 genera and 41 species were collected. The most abundant species were Culex quinquefasciatus Say, 1823, Aedes aegypti (Linnaeus, 1762) and Aedes albopictus (Skuse, 1895). There was a significant association between rarefied species richness and landscape, with higher richness in the Rural landscape. The number of observed species was matched only in the Urban landscape. Most species showed segregation along an Urban-Forest gradient, and the great majority were associated with forested habitats. We were able to fit prediction models for six mosquito species. Discussion: The paper discusses the impact of human activities on landscape and its effects on mosquito populations, focusing on the segregation of different known vector species and their proximity to human altered environments. Most of these species are known arbovirus vectors and knowledge of their distribution are key elements that health authorities should take into account when planning arbovirus surveillance and vector control activities.		[Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela; Honorio, Nildimar Alves] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Inst Oswaldo Cruz, Lab Mosquitos Transmissores Hematozoarios LATHEMA, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela; Pinel, Celio da Silva; Rocha, Glaucio Pereira; Honorio, Nildimar Alves] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Nucleo Operac Sentinela Mosquitos Vetores NOSMOVE, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela; Codeco, Claudia Torres] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Programa Comp Cient PROCC, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Inst Oswaldo Cruz, Lab Mosquitos Transmissores Hematozoarios LATHEMA, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Nucleo Operac Sentinela Mosquitos Vetores NOSMOVE, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Camara, Daniel Cardoso Portela] Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Programa Comp Cient PROCC, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								10							Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000600041100002		
J	Stiles, Elena; Wilf, Peter; Iglesias, Ari; Gandolfo, Maria A.; Cuneo, N. Ruben								Cretaceous-Paleogene plant extinction and recovery in Patagonia								PALEOBIOLOGY				46	4			445	469	PII S0094837320000457	10.1017/pab.2020.45			NOV 2020	2020	The Cretaceous-Paleogene (K/Pg) extinction appears to have been geographically heterogeneous for some organismal groups. Southern Hemisphere K/Pg palynological records have shown lower extinction and faster recovery than in the Northern Hemisphere, but no comparable, well-constrained Southern Hemisphere macrofloras spanning this interval had been available. Here, macrofloral turnover patterns are addressed for the first time in the Southern Hemisphere, using more than 3500 dicot leaves from the latest Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) and the earliest Paleocene (Danian) of Argentine Patagonia. A maximum ca. 90% macrofloral extinction and ca. 45% drop in rarefied species richness is estimated across the K/Pg, consistent with substantial species-level extinction and previously observed extirpation of host-specialized leaf mines. However, prior palynological and taxonomic studies indicate low turnover of higher taxa and persistence of general floral composition in the same sections. High species extinction, decreased species richness, and homogeneous Danian macrofloras across time and facies resemble patterns often observed in North America, but there are several notable differences. When compared with boundary-spanning macrofloras at similar absolute paleolatitudes (ca. 50 degrees S or 50 degrees N) from the Williston Basin (WB) in the Dakotas, both Maastrichtian and Danian Patagonian species richnesses are higher, extending a history of elevated South American diversity into the Maastrichtian. Despite high species turnover, our analyses also reveal continuity and expansion of leaf morphospace, including an increase in lobed and toothed species unlike the Danian WB. Thus, both Patagonian and WB K/Pg macrofloras support a significant extinction event, but they may also reflect geographically heterogeneous diversity, extinction, and recovery patterns warranting future study.		[Stiles, Elena; Wilf, Peter] Penn State Univ, Dept Geosci, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Stiles, Elena] Univ Washington, Dept Biol, Seattle, WA 98105 USA; [Iglesias, Ari] Univ Nacl Comahue, INIBIOMA, Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn CONICET, RA-8400 San Carlos De Bariloche, Rio Negro, Argentina; [Gandolfo, Maria A.] Cornell Univ, Plant Biol Sect, Sch Integrat Plant Sci, LH Bailey Hortorium, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA; [Cuneo, N. Ruben] Consejo Nacl Invest Cient & Tecn CONICET, Museo Paleontol Egidio Feruglio, Ave Fontana 140, RA-9100 Trelew, Chubut, Argentina; [Stiles, Elena] Penn State Univ, Dept Geosci, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Stiles, Elena] Univ Washington, Dept Biol, Seattle, WA 98105 USA								21							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology; Paleontology	WOS:000589669000002		
J	Delbac, Lionel; Rusch, Adrien; Binet, Delphine; Thiery, Denis								Seasonal variation of Drosophilidae communities in viticultural landscapes								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				48				83	91		10.1016/j.baae.2020.08.002			NOV 2020	2020	Studies at the landscape scale are important to understand insect population and community dynamics. Despite numerous studies on the effects of landscape context on phytophagous insect communities, few studies were conducted on fruit flies and the seasonal variation in the effects of landscape context remains poorly explored. Here, we investigate how landscape composition affects Drosophilidae communities in vineyards and how these effects vary over time. To do this, we sampled Drosophilidae communities in 20 vineyards selected along a gradient of proportion cover of semi-natural habitats in the landscape over a whole year in southwestern France. We found an overall positive effect of increasing proportion of semi-natural habitats in the landscape on abundance of drosophilid species but not on the rarefied species richness. We also found strong seasonal changes in community composition with a major temporal differentiation between the two dominant species of the community, Drosophila subobscura and Drosophila suzukii. Our study revealed that the composition of the Drosophilidae communities in vineyards is strongly influenced by the proportion of semi-natural habitats and the time of year. Our results suggest that the variation in space and time of key resources such as host plants or overwintering habitats in the landscape is a key factor affecting community composition of Drosophilidae in crops. (C) 2020 Gesellschaft fur okologie. Published by Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Delbac, Lionel; Rusch, Adrien; Binet, Delphine; Thiery, Denis] INRAE, SAVE, Bordeaux Sci Agro, ISVV, Villenave Dornon, France; [Binet, Delphine] Univ Strasbourg, SVQV, INRAE, Colmar, France; [Binet, Delphine] ALTOPICTUS, Merignac, France; [Delbac, Lionel] INRAE, SAVE, Bordeaux Sci Agro, ISVV, Villenave Dornon, France								4							Ecology	WOS:000582737300008		
J	Schnitzer, Stefan A.; Estrada-Villegas, Sergio; Wright, S. Joseph								The response of lianas to 20 yr of nutrient addition in a Panamanian forest								ECOLOGY				101	12						10.1002/ecy.3190			DEC 2020	2020	Over the past two decades, liana density and basal area have been increasing in many tropical forests, which has profound consequences for forest diversity and functioning. One hypothesis to explain increasing lianas is elevated nutrient deposition in tropical forests resulting from fossil fuels, agricultural fertilizer, and biomass burning. We tested this hypothesis by surveying all lianas >= 1 cm in diameter (n = 3,967) in 32 plots in a fully factorial nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) addition experiment in a mature tropical forest in central Panama. We conducted the nutrient-addition experiment from 1998 until present and we first censused lianas in 2013 and then again in 2018. After 20 yr of nutrient addition (1998-2018), liana density, basal area, and rarefied species richness did not differ significantly among any of the nutrient-addition and control treatments. Moreover, nutrient addition in the most recent 5 yr of the experiment did not affect liana relative growth, recruitment, or mortality rates. From 2013 until 2018, liana density, basal area, and species richness increased annually by 1.6%, 1.4%, and 2.4%, respectively. Nutrient addition did not influence these increases. Our findings indicate that nutrient deposition does not explain increasing lianas in this tropical forest. Instead, increases in tree mortality and disturbance, atmospheric carbon dioxide, drought frequency and severity, and hunting pressure may be more likely explanations for the increase in lianas in tropical forests.		[Schnitzer, Stefan A.; Estrada-Villegas, Sergio] Marquette Univ, Dept Biol Sci, POB 1881, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA; [Schnitzer, Stefan A.; Estrada-Villegas, Sergio; Wright, S. Joseph] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Panama; [Estrada-Villegas, Sergio] Yale Univ, Yale Sch Environm, New Haven, CT 06511 USA; [Schnitzer, Stefan A.] Marquette Univ, Dept Biol Sci, POB 1881, Milwaukee, WI 53201 USA; [Schnitzer, Stefan A.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Panama								7							Ecology	WOS:000573952300001		
J	Ali, Arshad; Mattsson, Eskil; Nissanka, S. P.; Wang, Li-Qiu								Topmost trees and foremost species underlie tropical forest structure, diversity and biomass through opposing mechanisms								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				473						118299	10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118299			OCT 1 2020	2020	Tropical forests play a main role in the global carbon cycle due to their higher exchange capacity of carbon dioxide with the atmosphere than any other forest type on the Earth. In this study, we aimed to explore the relative importance of foremost species and topmost trees in shaping forest structure, diversity and biomass in natural tropical forests. We hypothesized that topmost trees promote but foremost species decline tropical forest structure, diversity and biomass in a changing environment (i.e. the 'tree overtopping hypothesis'). We formulated three questions to address the proposed hypothesis: (1) Are forest structure, diversity and biomass affected by both foremost species and topmost trees, and what is the magnitude and direction of each relative effect? (2) Are foremost species and topmost trees influenced similarly by multiple environmental factors? (3) How do foremost species and topmost trees mediate the feedbacks of forest structure, diversity and biomass to environmental factors? Using 189 plots data from Sri Lanka, we quantified 16 environmental (9 climate and 7 soil) factors, two indices of the topmost trees (i.e. top 1% large-diameter, and tall-stature) and their combination, four indices of foremost species (i.e. top 1% species' importance value index or each of its three components including either relative basal area, relative frequency or relative density), rarefied species richness, and stand density. We used structural equation modeling to test the proposed hypothesis. Strong positive effects of topmost trees whereas negative to negligible positive effects of foremost species shaped tropical forest structure, diversity and biomass through opposing mechanisms, i.e., the promoting part of big trees and suppressing part of dominant species, respectively. Moreover, forest structure promoted biomass directly and indirectly via forest diversity. Environmental factors (i.e. high climatic water and low soil fertility) increased forest structure, diversity and biomass indirectly via topmost trees but decreased via foremost species. The main novelty or contribution of this study determines that the adverse effects of few foremost (i.e. dominant or abundant) species shaped forest structure, diversity and biomass in tropical forests when simultaneously considered the positive effects of topmost trees. Hence, encouraging topmost trees while managing foremost species might necessarily increase complementarily resource-use within a forest community, leading to positive forest diversity - structure - biomass relationships. We argue that both topmost trees and foremost species might have important influences on forest carbon stock in the context of global climate change.		[Ali, Arshad; Wang, Li-Qiu] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coll Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Management, Nanjing 210037, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Ali, Arshad; Wang, Li-Qiu] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coinnovat Ctr Sustainable Forestry Southern China, Nanjing 210037, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Mattsson, Eskil] IVL Swedish Environm Res Inst, Aschebergsgatan 44, S-41133 Gothenburg, Sweden; [Nissanka, S. P.] Univ Peradeniya, Fac Agr, Dept Crop Sci, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka; [Ali, Arshad] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coll Forestry, Dept Forest Resources Management, Nanjing 210037, Jiangsu, Peoples R China								9							Forestry	WOS:000551979700025		
J	Naka, Luciano Nicolas; Laranjeiras, Thiago Orsi; Rodrigues Lima, Gisiane; Plaskievicz, Alice; Pinto, Flavia; Goncalves-Souza, Thiago								Climate as a major driver of avian diversity in riparian Amazonian habitats along an environmental gradient								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				47	11			2328	2340		10.1111/jbi.13957			NOV 2020	2020	Aim To investigate the influence of bioclimatic, productivity and topographic variables on avian diversity patterns in riparian habitats along a savanna/humid forest environmental gradient. We investigate how this gradient affects patterns of taxonomic and phylogenetic alpha and beta diversities, and whether the changes observed along the river are the result of taxonomic (and phylogenetic) replacement or nestedness-resultant dissimilarities. We also explore a potential ecological mechanism to account for differences in species richness along the gradient. Location Basin of the Rio Branco, northern Amazonia, Brazil. Taxa An avian community of 325 bird species. Methods We sampled avian communities using standardized avian point counts at 16 localities, systematically distributed along the Rio Branco and two of its major tributaries. We compared patterns of species richness using rarefied numbers of species detected, and patterns of phylogenetic diversity with a community-wide consensus tree. In addition, we partitioned beta diversity in species replacement and nestedness-resultant dissimilarities. We reduced predictor variables using a principal components analysis, correlating locality scores with changes in diversity. We tested the effect of climatic variables on beta diversity with a distance-based redundancy analysis (dbRDA). Results Patterns of avian composition and species richness were highly correlated with climatic and productivity variables. We found more bird species in less arid localities with higher annual precipitation, and in areas with lower annual temperatures, lower evapotranspiration and less temperature variation throughout the year. Despite differences in species richness, the number of individuals remained relatively similar along the gradient. However, species-rich localities presented lower average species frequency and median avian biomass. Patterns of taxonomic and phylogenetic beta diversity were correlated with the climatic gradient and were due to species replacements. Main conclusions Climate represents a major player in structuring avian communities along the Rio Branco, affecting distinct levels of avian diversity organization. We found evidence of species packing, a mechanism to fit more species in the communities. Patterns of species replacement highlight the importance of transitional zones along the gradient and stress their importance as future buffer zones, vital for the survival of bird species under future human-induced climatic conditions.		[Naka, Luciano Nicolas] Univ Fed Pernambuco UFPE, Ctr Biociencias, Lab Ecol & Evolucao Aves, Dept Zool, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Naka, Luciano Nicolas; Plaskievicz, Alice] Univ Fed Roraima UFRR, Programa Posgrad Recursos Nat PRONAT, Boa Vista, Parana, Brazil; [Laranjeiras, Thiago Orsi] Inst Nacl Pesquisas Amazonia INPA, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Laranjeiras, Thiago Orsi] Inst Chico Mendes Conservacao Biodiversidad ICMBi, Boa Vista, Parana, Brazil; [Rodrigues Lima, Gisiane] Univ Fed Amazonas UFAM, Programa Posgrad Zool, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Pinto, Flavia] Nature Conservancy, Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Goncalves-Souza, Thiago] Univ Fed Rural Pernambuco UFRPE, Dept Biol, Lab Sintese Ecol & Conservacao Biodiversidade, Recife, PE, Brazil; [Naka, Luciano Nicolas] Univ Fed Pernambuco UFPE, Dept Zool, Recife, PE, Brazil								8							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000571974400001		
J	Dickey, Jonathan R.; Fordyce, James A.; Lebeis, Sarah L.								Bacterial communities of the<i>Salvia lyrata</i>rhizosphere explained by spatial structure and sampling grain								MICROBIAL ECOLOGY				80	4			846	858		10.1007/s00248-020-01594-7			NOV 2020	2020	Advancements in molecular technology have reduced the constraints that the grain of observation, or the spatial resolution and volume of the sampling unit, has on the characterization of plant-associated microbiomes. With discrete ecological sampling and massive parallel sequencing, we can more precisely portray microbiome community assembly and microbial recruitment to host tissue over space and time. Here, we differentiate rarefied community richness and relative abundance in bacterial microbiomes ofSalvia lyratadependent on three spatial depths, which are discrete physical distances from the soil surface within the rhizosphere microhabitat as a proxy for the root system zones. To assess the impact of sampling grain on rarefied community richness and relative abundance, we evaluated the variation of these metrics between samples pooled prior to DNA extraction and samples pooled after sequencing. A distance-based redundancy analysis with the quantitative Jaccard distance revealed that rhizosphere microbiomes vary in richness between rhizosphere soil depths. At all orders of diversity, rarefied microbial richness was consistently lowest at the deepest samples taken (approximately 4 cm from soil surface) in comparison with other rhizosphere soil depths. We additionally show that finer grain sampling (i.e., three samples of equal volume pooled after sequencing) recovers greater microbial richness when using 16S rRNA gene sequencing to describe microbial communities found within the rhizosphere system. In summary, to further elucidate the extent host-specific microbiomes assemble within the rhizosphere, the grain at which bacterial communities are sampled should reflect and encompass fine-scale heterogeneity of the system.		[Dickey, Jonathan R.; Fordyce, James A.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 569 Dabney Hall, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Lebeis, Sarah L.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Microbiol, 307 Ken & Blaire Mossman Bldg, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA; [Dickey, Jonathan R.] Univ Tennessee, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, 569 Dabney Hall, Knoxville, TN 37996 USA								6							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Microbiology	WOS:000566020600001		
J	Beule, Lukas; Karlovsky, Petr								Improved normalization of species count data in ecology by scaling with ranked subsampling (SRS): application to microbial communities								PEERJ				8						e9593	10.7717/peerj.9593			AUG 3 2020	2020	Background. Analysis of species count data in ecology often requires normalization to an identical sample size. Rarefying (random subsampling without replacement), which is the current standard method for normalization, has been widely criticized for its poor reproducibility and potential distortion of the community structure. In the context of microbiome count data, researchers explicitly advised against the use of rarefying. Here we introduce a normalization method for species count data called scaling with ranked subsampling (SRS) and demonstrate its suitability for the analysis of microbial communities. Methods. SRS consists of two steps. In the scaling step, the counts for all species or operational taxonomic units (OTUs) are divided by a scaling factor chosen in such a way that the sum of scaled counts equals the selected total number of counts C-min. The relative frequencies of all OTUs remain unchanged. In the subsequent ranked subsampling step, non-integer count values are converted into integers by an algorithm that minimizes subsampling error with regard to the population structure (relative frequencies of species or OTUs) while keeping the total number of counts equal C-min. SRS and rarefying were compared by normalizing a test library representing a soil bacterial community. Common parameters of biodiversity and population structure (Shannon index H', species richness, species composition, and relative abundances of OTUs) were determined for libraries normalized to different size by rarefying as well as SRS with 10,000 replications each. An implementation of SRS in R is available for download (https://doi.org/10.20387/BONARES-2657-1NP3). Results. SRS showed greater reproducibility and preserved OTU frequencies and alpha diversity better than rarefying. The variance in Shannon diversity increased with the reduction of the library size after rarefying but remained zero for SRS. Relative abundances of OTUs strongly varied among libraries generated by rarefying, whereas libraries normalized by SRS showed only negligible variation. Bray-Curtis index of dissimilarity among replicates of the same library normalized by rarefying revealed a large variation in species composition, which reached complete dissimilarity (not a single OTU shared) among some libraries rarefied to a small size. The dissimilarity among replicated libraries normalized by SRS remained negligibly low at each library size. The variance in dissimilarity increased with the decreasing library size after rarefying, whereas it remained either zero or negligibly low after SRS. Conclusions. Normalization of OTU or species counts by scaling with ranked subsampling preserves the original community structure by minimizing subsampling errors. We therefore propose SRS for the normalization of biological count data.		[Beule, Lukas; Karlovsky, Petr] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Mol Phytopathol & Mycotoxin Res, Gottingen, Germany; [Beule, Lukas] Georg August Univ Gottingen, Mol Phytopathol & Mycotoxin Res, Gottingen, Germany								89							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000554824100004		
J	Santos, Edineusa P.; Wagner, Helene H.; Ferraz, Silvio F. B.; Siqueira, Tadeu								Interactive persistent effects of past land-cover and its trajectory on tropical freshwater biodiversity								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY				57	11			2149	2158		10.1111/1365-2664.13717			NOV 2020	2020	Evidence indicating that ecological communities show delayed responses to environmental change has raised the need to better understand the effects of landscape history on biodiversity. We investigated how freshwater biodiversity is related to both recent and past land use change in tropical river catchments. More specifically, we analysed the relationship between biodiversity and change in forest cover that occurred across five decades, including landscape trajectories of forest gain and loss. The abundance of stream insects showed a more delayed response to landscape change than rarefied richness, whereas the Tsallis diversity index was not related to past forest cover. However, both alpha diversity and local abundance were related to mean forest cover across the five decades when conditioned by the trajectory of change. We found a negative relationship between the historical mean of forest cover and community descriptors in streams embedded in landscapes on a trajectory of forest loss, but a positive relationship in landscapes on a trajectory of forest gain. We provide the first evidence of delayed responses of tropical freshwater insect communities to landscape history and suggest that the magnitude of change in forest cover, mediated by its trajectory, is a major driver of delayed responses. We show that a trajectory of forest loss might result in both immediate loss of species and a set of species doomed for future extinction. Synthesis and applications. Delayed responses of multispecies communities to past landscape changes depend on their extent, frequency and intensity. Our findings indicate that, beyond the relative amount of forest cover within river catchments, the magnitude of change in forest cover mediated by its historical trajectory can be a major driver of delayed responses in stream communities. We suggest that, if biodiversity conservation is the main aim, stream restoration should be prioritized in catchments with higher forest cover, as even under a forest gain trajectory, stream communities continue responding to past landscape changes depending on how widespread and intensive changes were.		[Santos, Edineusa P.; Siqueira, Tadeu] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Inst Biosci, Rio Claro, Brazil; [Wagner, Helene H.] Univ Toronto, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Mississauga, ON, Canada; [Ferraz, Silvio F. B.] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Santos, Edineusa P.; Siqueira, Tadeu] Sao Paulo State Univ UNESP, Inst Biosci, Rio Claro, Brazil								3							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000554431200001		
J	Larson, Diane L.; Hernandez, Daniel L.; Larson, Jennifer L.; Leone, Julia B.; Pennarola, Nora								Management of remnant tallgrass prairie by grazing or fire: effects on plant communities and soil properties								ECOSPHERE				11	8					e03213	10.1002/ecs2.3213			AUG 2020	2020	Tallgrass prairie is a disturbance-dependent ecosystem that has suffered steep declines in the midwestern United States. The necessity of disturbance, typically fire or grazing, presents challenges to managers who must apply them on increasingly small and fragmented parcels. The goal of this study was to compare effects of management using cattle grazing or fire on vegetation and soil characteristics to aid managers in making decisions regarding the kind of disturbance to apply. We selected 73 sites, of which 27 were managed solely by cattle grazing and 46 solely by fire, for at least 11 yr leading up to the study. We stratified the sites by prairie type (dry, mesic, and wet) and sampled frequency of plant species on randomly placed transects, supplemented with botanist-directed walks, and collected and composited five soil cores on a randomly selected transect within each prairie type at each site. We calculated rarefied richness and Shannon evenness from the transect data and mean coefficient of conservatism (CofC) from the total list of species. Soil samples were analyzed for texture, bulk density, total N and C, and potential net N nitrification and mineralization. A nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis of the plant community data revealed differences in species associated with mesic and wet prairies, but no separation by management type. Similarly, none of the vegetation variables we calculated varied by management type, as determined by mixed-effects models, but soil bulk density was 17.5% higher and total N was 22% higher on grazed sites than burned sites. Sites burned more recently had higher species richness and mean CofC, but fire was not associated with any soil variables. Sites grazed more recently had higher bulk density, total N and C, and faster N cycling rates. Overall, 28% of plant species were found exclusively in one management type or the other, but these species did not vary in mean CofC. We conclude that, at the levels of burning and grazing intensity we studied, both management approaches produce similar C storage and vegetation responses. To maintain maximum diversity across the landscape, however, both approaches are necessary.		[Larson, Diane L.] US Geol Survey, Northern Prairie Wildlife Res Ctr, 1561 Lindig St, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Hernandez, Daniel L.] Carleton Coll, Biol Dept, 1 North Coll St, Northfield, MN 55057 USA; [Larson, Jennifer L.] Polistes Fdn, 1561 Lindig St, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Leone, Julia B.] Univ Minnesota, Dept Fisheries Wildlife & Conservat Biol, 2003 Upper Buford Circle, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Pennarola, Nora] Univ Minnesota, Dept Entomol, 1980 Folwell Ave, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Larson, Diane L.] US Geol Survey, Northern Prairie Wildlife Res Ctr, 1561 Lindig St, St Paul, MN 55108 USA								11							Ecology	WOS:000567504400020		
J	Gooriah, Leana D.; Davidar, Priya; Chase, Jonathan M.								Species-area relationships in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands emerge because rarer species are disproportionately favored on larger islands								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				10	14			7551	7559		10.1002/ece3.6480			JUL 2020	2020	The island species-area relationship (ISAR) describes how the number of species increases with increasing size of an island (or island-like habitat), and is of fundamental importance in island biogeography and conservation. Here, we use a framework based on individual-based rarefaction to infer whether ISARs result from passive sampling, or whether some processes are acting beyond sampling (e.g., disproportionate effects and/or habitat heterogeneity). Using data on total and relative abundances of four taxa (birds, butterflies, amphibians, and reptiles) from multiple islands in the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago, we examine how different metrics of biodiversity (total species richness, rarefied species richness, and abundance-weighted effective numbers of species emphasizing common species) vary with island area. Total species richness increased for all taxa, as did rarefied species richness controlling for a given sampling effort. This indicates that the ISAR did not result because of passive sampling, but that instead, some species were disproportionately favored on larger islands. For birds, frogs, and lizards, this disproportionate effect was only associated with species that were rarer in the samples, but for butterflies, both more common and rarer species were affected. Furthermore, for the two taxa for which we had plot-level data (reptiles and amphibians), within-island beta-diversity did not increase with island size, suggesting that within-island compositional effects were unlikely to be driving these ISARs. Overall, our results indicate that the ISARs of these taxa are most likely driven by disproportionate effects, that is, where larger islands are important sources of biodiversity beyond a simple sampling expectation, especially through their influence on rarer species, thus emphasizing their role in the preservation and conservation of species.		[Gooriah, Leana D.; Chase, Jonathan M.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany; [Davidar, Priya] Pondicherry Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Pondicherry, India; [Davidar, Priya] Sigur Nat Trust, Nilgiris, India; [Chase, Jonathan M.] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Comp Sci, Halle, Germany; [Gooriah, Leana D.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany								8							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000548029700001		
J	Akita, Shingo; Murasawa, Hiroki; Takano, Yoshihito; Kawakami, Yoko; Fujita, Daisuke; Nagai, Satoshi								Variation in "bank of microscopic forms" in urchin barren coast: detection using DNA metabarcoding based on high-throughput sequencing								JOURNAL OF APPLIED PHYCOLOGY				32	3			2115	2124		10.1007/s10811-020-02122-3			JUN 2020	2020	Type of macroalgal beds that recovered from sea urchin barrens is determined by components of "bank of microscopic forms." In the present study, we investigated the variation of the bank components, especially in the Phaeophyceae and Rhodophyta, on cobbles at four different vegetation and depths (1, 2, 5, and 7 m) of urchin barren grounds (UB1, UB2, UB5, and UB7), and alternative ecological phases (EB, ecklonian kelp bed and SC, soft coral bed). We collected 30 cobbles (3-7 cobbles per station) from the six stations and identified the attached algae by DNA metabarcoding based on high-throughput sequencing. In the rarefied data, 74 macroalgal operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were detected, of which 32 and 42 OTUs were assigned to Phaeophyceae and Rhodophyta, respectively. The OTU richness in urchin barrens increased with depth from UB1 (0.07 +/- 0.03 OTUs cm(-2) of cobble) to UB7 (0.21 +/- 0.12 OTUs cm(-2) of cobble), which was similar to the other ecological phases (EB and SC). The Shannon-Weiner diversity index in UB7 was also significantly highest and similar to EB and SC (p < 0.05). However, the ordination test (non-metric multidimensional scaling) assigned EB to different group apart from UB7 and SC, probably due to solely Phaeophyceae dominance in EB. Therefore, macroalgal richness and components of the bank could be determined by depth and ecological phases, respectively. Furthermore, OTU identified as Undaria pinnatifida was detected on a cobble collected UB7. Thus, in urchin barren coast, the richness in kelp gametophyte is probably also higher in deeper area.		[Akita, Shingo; Murasawa, Hiroki; Fujita, Daisuke] Tokyo Univ Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Appl Phycol, Grad Sch, Minato Ku, 4-5-7 Konan, Tokyo 1088477, Japan; [Akita, Shingo] Ochanomizu Univ, Fac Core Res, Nat Sci Div, Bunkyo Ku, 2-1-1 Otsuka, Tokyo 1128610, Japan; [Takano, Yoshihito; Nagai, Satoshi] Natl Res Inst Fisheries Sci, Kanazawa Ku, 2-12-4 Fukuura, Yokohama, Kanagawa 2368648, Japan; [Takano, Yoshihito] Kochi Univ, Fac Sci & Technol, 200 Monobe, Nankoku, Kochi 7838502, Japan; [Kawakami, Yoko] AXIOHELIX Co Ltd, Chuo Ku, Tokyo 1030015, Japan; [Akita, Shingo] Tokyo Univ Marine Sci & Technol, Lab Appl Phycol, Grad Sch, Minato Ku, 4-5-7 Konan, Tokyo 1088477, Japan; [Akita, Shingo] Ochanomizu Univ, Fac Core Res, Nat Sci Div, Bunkyo Ku, 2-1-1 Otsuka, Tokyo 1128610, Japan								4							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000534879000001		
J	Swain, Timothy D.; Lax, Simon; Backman, Vadim; Marcelino, Luisa A.								Uncovering the role of Symbiodiniaceae assemblage composition and abundance in coral bleaching response by minimizing sampling and evolutionary biases								BMC MICROBIOLOGY				20	1					124	10.1186/s12866-020-01765-z			MAY 19 2020	2020	Background Biodiversity and productivity of coral-reef ecosystems depend upon reef-building corals and their associations with endosymbiotic Symbiodiniaceae, which offer diverse functional capabilities to their hosts. The number of unique symbiotic partners (richness) and relative abundances (evenness) have been hypothesized to affect host response to climate change induced thermal stress. Symbiodiniaceae assemblages with many unique phylotypes may provide greater physiological flexibility or form less stable symbioses; assemblages with low abundance phylotypes may allow corals to retain thermotolerant symbionts or represent associations with less-suitable symbionts. Results Here we demonstrate that true richness of Symbiodiniaceae phylotype assemblages is generally not discoverable from direct enumeration of unique phylotypes in association records and that cross host-species comparisons are biased by sampling and evolutionary patterns among species. These biases can be minimized through rarefaction of richness (rarefied-richness) and evenness (Probability of Interspecific Encounter, PIE), and analyses that account for phylogenetic patterns. These standardized metrics were calculated for individual Symbiodiniaceae assemblages composed of 377 unique ITS2 phylotypes associated with 123 coral species. Rarefied-richness minimized correlations with sampling effort, while maintaining important underlying characteristics across host bathymetry and geography. Phylogenetic comparative methods reveal significant increases in coral bleaching and mortality associated with increasing Symbiodiniaceae assemblage richness and evenness at the level of host species. Conclusions These results indicate that the potential flexibility afforded by assemblages characterized by many phylotypes present at similar relative abundances does not result in decreased bleaching risk and point to the need to characterize the overall functional and genetic diversity of Symbiodiniaceae assemblages to quantify their effect on host fitness under climate change.		[Swain, Timothy D.; Marcelino, Luisa A.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Evanston, IL 60208 USA; [Swain, Timothy D.; Marcelino, Luisa A.] Field Museum Nat Hist, Integrat Res Ctr, Chicago, IL 60605 USA; [Swain, Timothy D.] Nova Southeastern Univ, Dept Marine & Environm Sci, Dania, FL 33004 USA; [Lax, Simon] Univ Chicago, Dept Ecol & Evolut, 940 E 57Th St, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Lax, Simon] MIT, Dept Phys, Phys Living Syst, Cambridge, MA 02139 USA; [Backman, Vadim] Northwestern Univ, Dept Biomed Engn, Evanston, IL 60208 USA; [Marcelino, Luisa A.] Northwestern Univ, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Evanston, IL 60208 USA; [Marcelino, Luisa A.] Field Museum Nat Hist, Integrat Res Ctr, Chicago, IL 60605 USA								5							Microbiology	WOS:000536772600002		
J	Huinocana, Julio Cesar Serrano; Albertoni, Edelti Faria; Picolotto, Rayana Caroline; Milesi, Silvia Vendruscolo; Hepp, Luiz Ubiratan								Nestedness of insect assemblages in agriculture-impacted Atlantic forest streams								ANNALES DE LIMNOLOGIE-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF LIMNOLOGY				56						3	10.1051/limn/2020002			MAR 24 2020	2020	Agricultural land use causes habitats fragmentation and riparian vegetation removal, driving variability in the composition of aquatic insect assemblage in streams. We explored the effect of agriculture on the beta diversity of insect assemblages of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT) in Atlantic forest streams. We measured water physical and chemical variables and quantified the land cover of 10 stream catchments to determine the environmental integrity of the streams. The percentage of vegetation range was similar to 6% to similar to 47%, and agricultural land use range was similar to 24% to similar to 88%. We collected a total of 2632 individuals distributed in 30 genera. Trichoptera was the most abundant order (57%), followed by Ephemeroptera (41%) and Plecoptera (2%). The abundance was influenced by the higher agriculture practices in the streams adjacent areas. On the other hand, the oxygenated waters and higher percentages of riparian vegetation influenced the EPT rarefied richness. The beta diversity of EPT assemblages was structured by nestedness due to the influence agricultural activities. The variation in the agricultural intensity that occurs in the streams generated more intense limnological variability, which caused the nestedness of EPT insects as well as the reduction of taxonomic richness. Thus, the streams with low environmental integrity had EPT assemblages nested in streams of high environmental integrity. The variation in the agricultural intensity that occurs in the riparian zones of Atlantic Forest streams generates more limnological variability. This environmental variability caused the nestedness of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera assemblages and reduction of taxonomic richness.		[Huinocana, Julio Cesar Serrano; Albertoni, Edelti Faria; Hepp, Luiz Ubiratan] Univ Fed Rio Grande FURG, Inst Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Ambientes Aquat Continentais, Lab Limnol, Ave Italia,Km 8 S-N, BR-96203900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; [Picolotto, Rayana Caroline; Milesi, Silvia Vendruscolo; Hepp, Luiz Ubiratan] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Campus Erechim,Ave Sete Setembro 1621, BR-99709910 Erechim, RS, Brazil; [Hepp, Luiz Ubiratan] Univ Fed Rio Grande FURG, Inst Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Ambientes Aquat Continentais, Lab Limnol, Ave Italia,Km 8 S-N, BR-96203900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; [Hepp, Luiz Ubiratan] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Campus Erechim,Ave Sete Setembro 1621, BR-99709910 Erechim, RS, Brazil								4							Limnology	WOS:000526544400001		
J	Lingner, Debora Vanessa; Rodrigues, Arthur Vinicius; Oliveira, Laio Zimermann; De Gasper, Andre Luis; Vibrans, Alexander Christian								Modelling changes in forest attributes driven by human activities at different spatial scales in the subtropical Atlantic Forest								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				29	4			1283	1299		10.1007/s10531-020-01935-5			MAR 2020	2020	Human activities are the main drivers of biotic homogenization, thus affecting ecosystem functions. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship among anthropogenic disturbances and forest attributes. Moreover, we sought to identify direct and indirect effects of topographic heterogeneity (TH), more specifically of standard deviation of altitude, on anthropogenic disturbances and forest attributes, respectively, through a path analysis. We used data gathered on 186 systematically distributed sample plots located in the Brazilian subtropical Evergreen Rainforest. We selected 14 predictor variables related to anthropogenic disturbances aiming to model seven forest attributes related to species diversity, composition, and structure. The aboveground biomass, rarefied species richness, proportion of standing dead trees, and proportion of individuals of pioneer species in the regeneration layer were better predicted by global linear regression models. The proportions of individuals of pioneer species in the canopy layer and of threatened species in the canopy and regeneration layers were better explained by local geographically weighted regression models. Human activities at different spatial scales may lead to disturbances (e.g., edge effects and habitat fragmentation), thus driving changes in forest attributes. The land use amidst forest remnants was related to biomass production and biotic homogenization. Logging and road networks may imperil the maintenance of threatened species. The path analysis showed that TH indirectly affects species richness via pasture area. Furthermore, topography appeared to act as a barrier for the expansion of certain human activities over the landscape. Our findings evoked the need for implementation of adaptative conservation strategies.		[Lingner, Debora Vanessa; Oliveira, Laio Zimermann; De Gasper, Andre Luis; Vibrans, Alexander Christian] Univ Reg Blumenau, Dept Engn Florestal, Rua Sao Paulo, 3250, Itoupava Seca, BR-89030-00 Blumenau, SC, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Arthur Vinicius] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Ave Bento Goncalves, 9500, Agronomia, BR-91501-97 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [De Gasper, Andre Luis; Vibrans, Alexander Christian] Univ Reg Blumenau, Programa Posgrad Engn Florestal, Rua Sao Paulo, 3250, Itoupava Seca, BR-89030-00 Blumenau, SC, Brazil; [Lingner, Debora Vanessa] Univ Reg Blumenau, Dept Engn Florestal, Rua Sao Paulo, 3250, Itoupava Seca, BR-89030-00 Blumenau, SC, Brazil								9							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000515327900008		
J	Borges, Erica Rievrs; Dexter, Kyle G.; Bueno, Marcelo Leandro; Pontara, Vanessa; Carvalho, Fabricio Alvim								The evolutionary diversity of urban forests depends on their land-use history								URBAN ECOSYSTEMS				23	3			631	643		10.1007/s11252-020-00938-y			JUN 2020	2020	Urbanization leads to strong modifications of landscape structure and ecosystem functioning, and urban areas are spreading rapidly. The aim of this study was to investigate how phylogenetic diversity and composition of tree species are affected by urbanization itself and land-use history. We found that species richness, rarefied species richness and phylogenetic diversity are all affected by the land-use history of urban forests. Indeed, forests that regenerated from cropland, and particularly those regenerated from denuded landscapes, showed strong phylogenetic clustering, which was also related to their high perimeter-area ratio. Our analyses of phylogenetic composition show that urban forests without land-use history are compositionally indistinguishable from mature, non-urban forests. These two forest types house a diversity of evolutionary lineages and no specific lineage is a strong indicator of these forest types. In contrast, the two urban forest types with anthropogenic land-use history have a few, distinct lineages that are strongly associated with each of them, respectively. Overall, our results suggest that urban forests without previous land-use can house substantial amounts of angiosperm evolutionary diversity, which highlights the importance of preserving natural forest fragments as cities expand. This study highlights the substantial value of tropical urban forests and the importance of considering information on land-use history, even when studying urban environments.		[Borges, Erica Rievrs; Carvalho, Fabricio Alvim] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Grad Program Ecol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Borges, Erica Rievrs; Dexter, Kyle G.] Royal Bot Garden Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH3 5LR, Midlothian, Scotland; [Dexter, Kyle G.] Univ Edinburgh, Sch GeoSci, Edinburgh EH9 3FF, Midlothian, Scotland; [Bueno, Marcelo Leandro; Pontara, Vanessa] Univ Mato Grosso do Sul State, Lab Bot & Macroecol, Mundo Novo, MS, Brazil; [Borges, Erica Rievrs] Univ Fed Juiz de Fora, Grad Program Ecol, Juiz De Fora, MG, Brazil; [Borges, Erica Rievrs] Royal Bot Garden Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH3 5LR, Midlothian, Scotland								12							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences; Urban Studies	WOS:000516425800003		
J	Dambros, Cristian S.; Morais, Jose Wellington; Vasconcellos, Alexandre; Franklin, Elizabeth								Defining a termite sampling protocol for ecological studies: An effective method to increase statistical power								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF SOIL BIOLOGY				96						103145	10.1016/j.ejsobi.2019.103145			JAN-FEB 2020	2020	Protocols for sampling soil fauna are usually designed to increase the number of species found when one or a few plots are heavily sampled. However, no previous study has evaluated how the number of plots sampled affect the power of statistical tests associating community composition and the environment. We test the effect of the number of transects (plots) and the sampling effort in each transect on the representation of trophic groups and on the association of termite species composition with environmental variables. Data were collected in 30 250m-long transects located in central Amazonia. Each transect was subdivided into 10 non-contiguous sections of 5 m x 2 m each (separation of 22 m between sections). We rarefied the data to determine arrangement of transects and sections that 1) best characterizes the distribution of species in trophic groups and 2) maximizes the chances to detect true associations between termite species composition and environmental predictor variables. When more than six transects (plots) were sampled with at least five non-contiguous sections each, the distribution of trophic groups was similar to the known distribution for the area. However, the detection of the association between termite species composition and environmental variables was more easily detected by increasing the number of transects sampled (plots) than the sampling effort per transect. Our results suggest that spreading sampling effort into at least 15 transects (plots) improves the ability to detect trophic groups and the performance of regression tests associating the composition of species with the environment.		[Dambros, Cristian S.] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Ciencias Nat & Exatas, Dept Ecol & Evolucao, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Dambros, Cristian S.; Morais, Jose Wellington; Franklin, Elizabeth] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Coordenacao Biodiversidade, CP 2223, BR-69067375 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Vasconcellos, Alexandre] Univ Fed Paraiba, Dept Sistemat & Ecol, Lab Termitol, CCEN, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Dambros, Cristian S.] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Ctr Ciencias Nat & Exatas, Dept Ecol & Evolucao, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil								0							Ecology; Soil Science	WOS:000513986200003		
J	Berndt, Lisa A.; Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.								Effects of land cover type on carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) of the Canterbury foothills, New Zealand								NEW ZEALAND JOURNAL OF FORESTRY SCIENCE				49						12	10.33494/nzjfs492019x54x			DEC 30 2019	2019	Background: Land cover changes during the recent history of New Zealand have had a major impact on its largely endemic and iconic biodiversity. As in many other countries, large areas of native forest have been replaced by other land cover and are now in exotic pasture grassland or plantation forest. Ground beetles (Carabidae) are often used as ecological indicators, they provide ecosystem services such as pest control, and some species are endangered. However, few studies in New Zealand have assessed the habitat value for carabid beetles of natural forest, managed regenerating natural forest, pine plantation forest and pasture. Methods: We compared the carabid beetle assemblages of natural forest of Nothofagus solandrivar solandri (also known as Fuscospora solandri or black beech), regenerating N. solandri forest managed for timber production, exotic pine plantation forest and exotic pasture, using pitfall traps. The study was conducted at Woodside Forest in the foothills of the Southern Alps, North Canterbury, New Zealand, close to an area where the critically endangered carabid Holcaspis brevicula was found. Results: A total of 1192 carabid individuals from 23 species were caught during the study. All but two species were native to New Zealand, with the exotic species present only in low numbers and one of these only in the pasture habitat. Carabid relative abundance and the number of species was highest in the pine plantation, where a total of 15 species were caught; however, rarefied species richness did not differ significantly between habitats. The sampled carabid beetle assemblages were similar across the three forested habitat types but differed significantly from the pasture assemblages based on unconstrained and canonical analyses of principal coordinates. Holcaspis brevicula was not detected in this area. Conclusions: Our results show that managed or exotic habitats may provide habitat to species-rich carabid assemblages although some native species occur only in natural, undisturbed vegetation. Nevertheless, it is important to acknowledge the potential contribution of these land uses and land cover types to the conservation of native biodiversity and to consider how these can be managed to maximise conservation opportunities.		[Berndt, Lisa A.] Scion New Zealand Forest Res Inst, Private Bag 3020, Rotorua 3046, New Zealand; [Berndt, Lisa A.] LifeLab Coaching, 29 Iles Rd, Rotorua 3010, New Zealand; [Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.] Scion New Zealand Forest Res Inst, POB 29 237, Christchurch 8440, New Zealand; [Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Zurcherstr 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland; [Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.] Scion New Zealand Forest Res Inst, POB 29 237, Christchurch 8440, New Zealand; [Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.] Swiss Fed Res Inst WSL, Zurcherstr 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland								3							Forestry	WOS:000522942200001		
J	Longworth, J. Benjamin; Williamson, G. Bruce								Successional trajectories of secondary forests and tree plantations in Costa Rican lowlands								REVISTA DE BIOLOGIA TROPICAL				67	6			1220	1234					DEC 2019	2019	Tree plantations used for carbon sequestration or forest restoration often support diverse plant communities. However, it is unknown how rates of successional change in tree plantations compare to secondary forests. In this study, we compared the successional trajectory of tree plantations to that of secondary forests that were between 8 and 23 years old. Censuses of woody plants (>= 2 cm dbh [diameter at breast height]) in seven tree plantation plots and seven secondary forest plots (30 x 30 m) were conducted over three years (May 2013-July 2016) in a lowland tropical forest. Secondary forests were naturally regenerating from abandoned cattle pastures. Tree plantations were monocultures of two different native species (Vochysia guatemalensis and Hieronyma alchorneoides), planted for carbon sequestration. We measured the change in stem density, basal area, species density, rarefied species richness, and relative abundance of different growth forms and regeneration guilds. We found that differences in stem density and basal area between these two forest types were declining. Nevertheless, we did not find evidence for differences between forest types in the rate of accumulation of species richness when accounting for sample size. On the other hand, even though the successional trajectory in tree plantations was very similar to secondary forests, there were differences between forest types in species composition. The rate of change in relative abundance of different growth forms and regeneration guilds was similar in both forest types. Overall, our results suggest that structural - but not compositional differences - between tree plantations and secondary forests are converging during the second decade of succession.		[Longworth, J. Benjamin; Williamson, G. Bruce] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Williamson, G. Bruce] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Biol Dynam Forest Fragments Project, Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, CP 478, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Longworth, J. Benjamin] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA								0							Biology	WOS:000518895600010		
J	Zhou, Xiongdong; Xu, Mengzhen; Wang, Zhaoyin; Yu, Bofu; Fu, Xudong; Liu, Wei; Sun, Luo; Shao, Xuejun								Debris-flow deposits on a major river influence aquatic habitats and benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages								FRESHWATER SCIENCE				38	4			713	724		10.1086/706040			DEC 1 2019	2019	Natural barriers formed by avalanche deposits, landslides, and debris flows are commonly distributed along deep incised rivers where they block river channels and create diverse river habitats. However, little is known about the effects these naturally-occurring features have on the diversity of macroinvertebrate assemblages. We, therefore, conducted a field study to assess how alpha- and beta-diversity of stream macroinvertebrates were influenced by these deposits. The Nujiang River (upper Salween River) basin in China has more than 200 debris-flow deposits in the 300-km long Grand Canyon reach. We assessed differences in environmental variables and macroinvertebrate assemblages among 5 habitat types, including portions of the main channel and tributaries without these deposits and 3 other habitat types associated with debris deposits. We calculated alpha-diversity for each habitat type as individual-based rarefied richness and beta-diversity among sampled patches within each habitat type with the Whittaker Index. Generally, patches within the debris-flow deposits had lower alpha-diversity, density, and biomass compared with patches in the non-deposit reaches. These results indicate that the different habitat types in the debris-flow reaches had markedly different abiotic and biotic conditions than the non-deposit main channel reaches and tributaries. However, patches in the debris-flow deposits had higher beta-diversity than non-deposit reaches. By creating diverse habitat types, the debris-flow deposits enlarged the environmental gradients for macroinvertebrate assemblages, which increased regional aquatic biodiversity.		[Zhou, Xiongdong; Xu, Mengzhen; Wang, Zhaoyin; Fu, Xudong; Liu, Wei; Sun, Luo; Shao, Xuejun] Tsinghua Univ, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China; [Yu, Bofu] Griffith Univ, Australian Rivers Inst, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Yu, Bofu] Griffith Univ, Sch Engn, Nathan, Qld 4111, Australia; [Xu, Mengzhen] Tsinghua Univ, State Key Lab Hydrosci & Engn, Beijing 100084, Peoples R China								6							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000496957900004		
J	Abbas, Sawaid; Nichol, Janet E.; Zhang, Jinlong; Fischer, Gunter A.								The accumulation of species and recovery of species composition along a 70 year succession in a tropical secondary forest								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				106						105524	10.1016/j.ecolind.2019.105524			NOV 2019	2019	The majority of global forests are secondary and are at different stages of succession. Assessing the dynamics of species richness and similarity, and quantifying the importance of environmental filtering, dispersal limitation and other stochastic processes are essential to understanding the mechanisms of succession for forest restoration. In this article, we explored the accumulation of species, the relative importance of spatial distance, environmental factors and stand age in determining species composition of a tropical secondary forest succession in Hong Kong. Twenty-eight plots with median age of 7, 20, 39, 61 and over 70 years in the secondary forest were established and surveyed, and the indicator species for each age class were identified. Species composition shows large variation both within and between age classes, while species richness in the old growth forest (> 70 yr) was significantly lower than in the mid-age classes. Rarefied species richness showed a rapid accumulation during early succession, but species richness levelled off from 20 yrs onwards. Variation partitioning indicated that spatial distance alone explained 33% of the variation in species composition, followed by environmental distance (8%) and stand age (1%). The results of Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling suggested that idiosyncratic successional pathways and alternative stable states might be prevalent. Our results suggested dispersal limitation was the main limiting factor in explaining the turnover of species during forest succession, while environmental filtering played a lesser role in shaping species distributions. Our results highlight the importance of active restoration in overcoming the barriers of succession in secondary vegetation in the tropics.		[Abbas, Sawaid; Nichol, Janet E.] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Dept Land Surveying & Geoinformat, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Abbas, Sawaid] Hong Kong Polytech Univ, Res Inst Sustainable Urban Dev, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Nichol, Janet E.] Univ Sussex, Dept Geog, Sch Global Studies, Brighton, E Sussex, England; [Zhang, Jinlong; Fischer, Gunter A.] Kadoorie Farm & Bot Garden, Flora Conservat Dept, Tai Po, Hong Kong, Peoples R China; [Nichol, Janet E.] Univ Sussex, Dept Geog, Sch Global Studies, Brighton, E Sussex, England								26							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000490577900087		
J	Maravalhas, Jonas B.; Vasconcelos, Heraldo L.								Ant diversity in Neotropical savannas: Hierarchical processes acting at multiple spatial scales								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY				89	2			412	422		10.1111/1365-2656.13111			FEB 2020	2020	Understanding what creates and maintains macroscale biodiversity gradients is a central focus of ecological and evolutionary research. Spatial patterns in diversity are driven by a hierarchy of factors operating at multiple scales. Historical and climatic factors drive large-scale patterns of diversity by affecting the size of regional species pools, while habitat heterogeneity or microhabitat characteristics further influence species coexistence at small scales. We tested the degree to which the species-energy, historical factors, habitat heterogeneity and local environment hypotheses explain observed patterns of ant diversity across hierarchical spatial scales. We sampled ground-dwelling ants at 29 sites within a Neotropical savanna region, the Brazilian Cerrado. We measured species density - an abundance-dependent diversity metric - and rarefied species richness - an abundance-independent metric - at spatial scales with varying grain sizes. For each hypothesis, two correlates were used to predict ant diversity patterns: (a) species-energy: rainfall and productivity; (b) historical factors: historical variation in rainfall and refugial areas; (c) habitat heterogeneity: heterogeneity in greenness and diversity of land cover; and (d) local factors: contents of sand and coarse fragments in the soil. Ant diversity patterns correlated to net primary productivity and to the proportion of coarse fragments in the soil, corroborating the species-energy and local environment hypotheses, respectively. Soil negatively influenced species density, but not rarefied species richness, which was positively influenced by productivity. We found scale dependencies in the effects of soil/productivity on species density; productivity best predicted species density patterns at large scales, since sampling completeness offset the abundance-driven effects of soil. Considering abundance differences may help to discern the mechanisms underlying the relationship between macroscale diversity patterns and its ecological drivers. Plant productivity affected ant diversity independently of abundance, possibly by limiting the size of regional species pools. On the other hand, soil properties had an abundance-dependent effect on ant diversity, indicating a sampling mechanism. Our findings are consistent with predictions of the hierarchical theory of diversity. Large-scale patterns of productivity limit regional diversity, an effect that cascades down to finer spatial scales, where soil properties influence the number of coexisting species.		[Maravalhas, Jonas B.; Vasconcelos, Heraldo L.] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Biol, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Maravalhas, Jonas B.] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Inst Biol, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil								2							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000491392000001		
J	Woods, Carrie L.; Nevins, Laura M.; Didier, Emma J.								Structural heterogeneity of trees influences epiphyte distributions in a northern temperate rainforest								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				30	6			1134	1142		10.1111/jvs.12797			NOV 2019	2019	Questions Large trees provide structural heterogeneity that may influence the distribution and diversity of epiphytes, yet this has not been fully examined in northern temperate rainforest trees. How does epiphyte diversity, percent cover and composition vary among trunk and branch zones within northern temperate rainforest trees? Are there steep gradients in environmental conditions or resources within northern temperate rainforest trees? To what degree do species show specialization to particular zones within northern temperate rainforest trees? Location Temperate rainforest on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington State, USA. Methods We recorded epiphyte richness, percent cover, and composition in 78 plots from six tree zones (three trunk zones and three branch zones) in six large bigleaf maple (Acer macrophyllum) trees. At each survey point, we measured temperature, relative humidity, canopy cover, moss depth, height in tree, and branch diameter to examine the degree of habitat specialization along measured environmental and resource gradients and the importance of structural heterogeneity for epiphyte species diversity in entire trees. Results Rarefied epiphyte richness was 25% higher on the trunk than in the branches, and there was little overlap in species composition between trunk and branch zones. Species composition changed with height as well as decreasing canopy cover along the trunk. Within the branches, epiphyte composition was related to branch diameter and moss depth; while the inner and mid-branch zone communities were similar, the outer branch community differed. Microclimate variables did not vary significantly among tree zones and were not related to epiphyte distributions. Conclusions The structural heterogeneity of large A. macrophyllum trees created gradients in canopy cover and substrate characteristics that enabled up to 13 different epiphyte species to coexist. Thus, these trees are critical structures for the maintenance of forest diversity.		[Woods, Carrie L.; Nevins, Laura M.; Didier, Emma J.] Univ Puget Sound, Biol Dept, Tacoma, WA 98416 USA; [Woods, Carrie L.] Univ Puget Sound, Biol Dept, Tacoma, WA 98416 USA								6							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000488535600001		
J	Farias, Izeni Pires; Willis, Stuart; Leao, Adam; Verba, Julia Tovar; Crossa, Marcelo; Foresti, Fausto; Porto-Foresti, Fabio; Sampaio, Iracilda; Hrbek, Tomas								The largest fish in the world's biggest river: Genetic connectivity and conservation of <i>Arapaima gigas</i> in the Amazon and Araguaia-Tocantins drainages								PLOS ONE				14	8					e0220882	10.1371/journal.pone.0220882			AUG 16 2019	2019	Arapaima, pirarucu or paiche (Arapaima gigas) is one of the largest freshwater fish in the world, and has a long history of commercial exploitation in the Amazon region. To estimate levels of genetic variability and historical and recent connectivity in Arapaima, we examined variation in eleven microsatellite DNA markers in individuals from 22 localities in Brazil, Colombia, and Peru. The results of analysis of molecular variance, Bayesian clustering and discriminant analysis of principal components showed that Arapaima in our samples represents two major populations, one in the Amazonas and one in the Araguaia-Tocantins River basins. The Amazonas population is further structured by isolation-by-distance with the hydrologically largely unconnected Amapa locality representing the eastern-most extreme of this continuum; gene flow predominates at distances of less than 1500 km with localities separated by over 2000 km dominated by genetic drift and effectively forming different populations. We saw no evidence of multiple species of Arapaima in the Amazonas basin, and analysis of pairwise genetic divergence (FST) with Mantel tests and correlograms indicated that this largest population exhibits a large-scale pattern of isolation-by-distance, with which results from MIGRATE-N agreed. The degree and significance of genetic divergence indicates that most sampled localities represent demographically independent sub-populations, although we did identify several recent migration events between both proximal and more distant localities. The levels of genetic diversity were heterogeneous across sites, including low genetic diversity, effective population sizes, and evidence of genetic bottlenecks in several places. On average the levels of gene diversity and rarefied allelic richness were higher for localities along the Amazonas mainstem than in the tributaries, despite these being the areas of highest fishing pressure, while the lowest values were found in tributary headwaters, where landscape modification is a significant threat. We recommend that managers consider the regional and local threats to these populations and tailor strategies accordingly, strategies which should ensure the ability of young A. gigas to disperse through floodplain corridors to maintain genetic diversity among otherwise sedentary adult sub-populations.		[Farias, Izeni Pires; Leao, Adam; Verba, Julia Tovar; Hrbek, Tomas] Univ Fed Amazonas UFAM, Lab Evolucao & Genet Anim LEGAL, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Willis, Stuart] Calif Acad Sci, Dept Ichthyol, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA; [Verba, Julia Tovar] Univ Fed Rio Grande Norte UFRN, Dept Ecol, Natal, RN, Brazil; [Crossa, Marcelo] Acqua Consultoria Ambiental, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Foresti, Fausto] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Inst Biociencias, Lab Biol & Genet Peixes, Botucatu, SP, Brazil; [Porto-Foresti, Fabio] Univ Estadual Paulista UNESP, Fac Ciencias, Dept Ciencias Biol, Campus Bauru, Bauru, Brazil; [Sampaio, Iracilda] Univ Fed Para, Inst Estudos Costeiros, Campus Univ Braganca, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Farias, Izeni Pires; Hrbek, Tomas] Univ Fed Amazonas UFAM, Lab Evolucao & Genet Anim LEGAL, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								17							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000485019900017		
J	Olli, Kalle; Ptacnik, Robert; Klais, Riina; Tamminen, Timo								Phytoplankton Species Richness along Coastal and Estuarine Salinity Continua								AMERICAN NATURALIST				194	2			E41	E51		10.1086/703657			AUG 1 2019	2019	The high number of freshwater species at low salinity and the correspondingly high number of marine species at high salinity enveloping a conspicuous richness minimum at intermediate salinities has shaped our basic understanding of biodiversity along a coastal salinity gradient for almost 80 years. Visualized as the Remane curve, this iconic concept was originally based on sedentary macroinvertebrates in the Baltic Sea. To what extent the concept can be generalized, particularly to free-drifting organisms, is currently debated. Here we use approximately 16,000 phytoplankton samples from two large coastal ecosystems-the Baltic Sea and Chesapeake Bay-to analyze the relationship between salinity and phytoplankton species richness. Alpha diversity showed a consistent variation along the salinity gradient, with a minimum at mesohaline salinities of around 7-9. Rarefied species pools at narrow salinity intervals also showed reduced diversity at intermediate salinities, surrounded by high richness toward both ends of the gradient. The cumulative likelihood of species presence validated the minimum at intermediate salinities. Community composition changed abruptly at the alpha diversity minimum in the Baltic Sea, while it changed gradually along the salinity gradient in Chesapeake Bay. We conclude that the Remane concept is in every respect valid for phytoplankton.		[Olli, Kalle] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Ctr Limnol, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Tartu, Estonia; [Olli, Kalle] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Tartu, Estonia; [Ptacnik, Robert] WasserCluster Lunz Biol Stn, Lunz, Austria; [Klais, Riina] Univ Tartu, Estonian Marine Inst, Tartu, Estonia; [Tamminen, Timo] Finnish Environm Inst, Ctr Marine Res, Helsinki, Finland; [Olli, Kalle] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Ctr Limnol, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Tartu, Estonia; [Olli, Kalle] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Tartu, Estonia								23							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000476677100002		
J	Zheng, Li-Ting; Chen, Han Y. H.; Yan, En-Rong								Tree species diversity promotes litterfall productivity through crown complementarity in subtropical forests								JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				107	4			1852	1861		10.1111/1365-2745.13142			JUL 2019	2019	The role of niche complementarity for driving the positive biodiversity-ecosystem productivity relationship has been widely recognized, but there is scant evidence regarding the role of tree canopy structure on this relationship. Litterfall productivity is proportional to forest net primary productivity in natural forests, and we hypothesized that litterfall productivity would increase with tree species diversity via increased tree crown complementarity. We investigated annual litterfall productivity, species diversity, tree crown architecture, soil moisture content, soil carbon content and stand age across 28 subtropical forest plots in eastern Zhejiang province, China. Simple linear regression was used to examine bivariate relationships among rarified species richness, crown complementarity, total crown volume, soil moisture content, soil carbon content, stand age and litterfall productivity. Structural equation modelling was employed to quantify the direct and indirect effects of species richness on litterfall productivity through tree crown complementarity. Litterfall productivity increased with rarefied species richness via increasing crown complementarity rather than total crown volume. Species richness, crown complementarity and litterfall productivity increased with soil moisture content, while crown complementarity and litterfall productivity increased with soil carbon content. Neither species richness nor crown complementarity increased with stand age, even though litterfall productivity increased with stand age. Synthesis. Our study provides evidence for the strong role of tree crown assembly in shaping ecosystem functions in complex natural forests. Our findings suggest that crown spatial complementarity among trees operates mechanistically to drive the positive tree species diversity-litterfall productivity relationship in subtropical forests. We argue that community and/or ecosystem ecology would benefit from more attention to crown variability among coexisting tree species.		[Zheng, Li-Ting; Yan, En-Rong] East China Normal Univ, Shanghai Key Lab Urban Ecol Proc & Ecorestorat, Tiantong Natl Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res Stn, Sch Ecol & Environm Sci,Forest Ecosyst Res & Obse, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Zheng, Li-Ting; Yan, En-Rong] Inst Ecochongming IEC, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Chen, Han Y. H.] Lakehead Univ, Fac Nat Resources Management, Thunder Bay, ON, Canada; [Yan, En-Rong] East China Normal Univ, Shanghai Key Lab Urban Ecol Proc & Ecorestorat, Tiantong Natl Forest Ecosyst Observat & Res Stn, Sch Ecol & Environm Sci,Forest Ecosyst Res & Obse, Shanghai, Peoples R China; [Yan, En-Rong] Inst Ecochongming IEC, Shanghai, Peoples R China								32							Plant Sciences; Ecology	WOS:000473096200025		
J	Morris, Thomas C.; van der Ploeg, Josh; Awa, Solange Bih; van der Lingen, Carl D.; Reed, Cecile C.								Parasite community structure as a predictor of host population structure: An example using <i>Callorhinchus capensis</i>								INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR PARASITOLOGY-PARASITES AND WILDLIFE				8				248	255		10.1016/j.ijppaw.2019.03.007			APR 2019	2019	This paper describes the parasite community structure of the Cape elephant fish or St Joseph shark (Callorhinchus capensis) caught off the West and South Coast of South Africa between 2010 and 2015. These data were used to build species accumulation curves (SAC) and calculate biodiversity indices including rarefied species richness, Shannon Weiner's diversity index, Simpson's index and Pielou's J index. The biodiversity indices were correlated with the host's biological data to determine how these affected the parasite community structure and provide insight into the host's population structure. The parasites identified in C. capensis (n = 259) include a cestode (Gyrocotyle plana), two monogeneans (Callorhynchicotyle callorhynchi and Callorhinchicola multitesticulatus), an isopod (Anilocra capensis) and a leech (Branchellion sp.). Gyrocotyle plana was the most prevalent at 71.43% and the monogenean C. callorhynchi had the highest mean abundance (1.55 +/- 0.45 parasites.fish(-1)) and the highest mean infection intensity (4.79 +/- 0.66 parasites.infected fish(-1)). The SAC and biodiversity measures indicate a uniform parasite community across the sampled host population, suggesting a highly interactive shark community with no evidence for population structure. These results show that parasite community structure can be used to infer their host's population structure.		[Morris, Thomas C.; van der Ploeg, Josh; Awa, Solange Bih; Reed, Cecile C.] Univ Cape Town, Dept Biol Sci, Cape Town, South Africa; [van der Lingen, Carl D.] Dept Agr Forestry & Fisheries, Fisheries Management Branch, Private Bag X2, ZA-8012 Vlaeberg, South Africa; [van der Lingen, Carl D.] Univ Cape Town, Marine Res Inst, Dept Biol Sci, Private Bag X3, ZA-7701 Cape Town, South Africa; [Morris, Thomas C.] Univ Auckland, Inst Marine Sci, Auckland, New Zealand								5							Ecology; Parasitology	WOS:000462495200033		
J	McKnight, Donald T.; Huerlimann, Roger; Bower, Deborah S.; Schwarzkopf, Lin; Alford, Ross A.; Zenger, Kyall R.								Methods for normalizing microbiome data: An ecological perspective								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				10	3			389	400		10.1111/2041-210X.13115			MAR 2019	2019	Microbiome sequencing data often need to be normalized due to differences in read depths, and recommendations for microbiome analyses generally warn against using proportions or rarefying to normalize data and instead advocate alternatives, such as upper quartile, CSS, edgeR-TMM, or DESeq-VS. Those recommendations are, however, based on studies that focused on differential abundance testing and variance standardization, rather than community-level comparisons (i.e., beta diversity). Also, standardizing the within-sample variance across samples may suppress differences in species evenness, potentially distorting community-level patterns. Furthermore, the recommended methods use log transformations, which we expect to exaggerate the importance of differences among rare OTUs, while suppressing the importance of differences among common OTUs. We tested these theoretical predictions via simulations and a real-world dataset. Proportions and rarefying produced more accurate comparisons among communities and were the only methods that fully normalized read depths across samples. Additionally, upper quartile, CSS, edgeR-TMM, and DESeq-VS often masked differences among communities when common OTUs differed, and they produced false positives when rare OTUs differed. Based on our simulations, normalizing via proportions may be superior to other commonly used methods for comparing ecological communities.		[McKnight, Donald T.; Huerlimann, Roger; Bower, Deborah S.; Schwarzkopf, Lin; Alford, Ross A.; Zenger, Kyall R.] James Cook Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Townsville, Qld, Australia; [Bower, Deborah S.] Univ New England, Sch Environm & Rural Sci, Armidale, NSW, Australia; [McKnight, Donald T.] James Cook Univ, Coll Sci & Engn, Townsville, Qld, Australia								158							Ecology	WOS:000460979800010		
J	Baba, Yuki G.; Tanaka, Koichi; Kusumoto, Yoshinobu								Changes in spider diversity and community structure along abandonment and vegetation succession in rice paddy ecosystems								ECOLOGICAL ENGINEERING				127				235	244		10.1016/j.ecoleng.2018.12.007			FEB 2019	2019	Field abandonment is a new threat to the biodiversity of agricultural land, but its impacts on arthropod communities remain unclear. We investigated how field abandonment influences spider abundance and diversity in rice paddy ecosystems. We collected spiders in paddy fields and six types of abandoned fields with different combinations of vegetation successional stage (early, middle, or late) and soil water content (wet or dry) in Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan. The abundance and species richness of cursorial spiders were higher in the abandoned fields than in the paddy fields, but there was no difference in the case of orb-weavers. Total spider abundance decreased with increasing successional stage, but the responses differed between orb-weavers and cursorial spiders: the abundance of orb-weavers decreased in the middle stage, whereas that of cursorial spiders decreased in the late stage. Soil water content affected only the abundance of orb-weavers: abundance was higher on wet soil than on dry soil. Species richness was not affected by either vegetation succession or soil water content. On the other hand, an individual-based species-accumulation curve showed that rarefied species richness tended to be greater in abandoned fields at the late stage. Ordination analysis showed that species composition clearly differed among paddy and abandoned fields at different successional stages. Our findings suggest that spider abundance and diversity are higher in abandoned fields than in cultivated fields, and that species composition varies depending on field abandonment and succession. Therefore, maintaining cultivated fields and abandoned fields at different successional stages can maintain a high diversity of spiders across rice paddy ecosystems.		[Baba, Yuki G.; Tanaka, Koichi] NARO, Inst Agroenvironm Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058604, Japan; [Kusumoto, Yoshinobu] NARO, Western Reg Agr Res Ctr, 2575 Ikano Cho, Zentsuji, Kagawa 7658508, Japan; [Baba, Yuki G.] NARO, Inst Agroenvironm Sci, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058604, Japan								10							Ecology; Engineering, Environmental; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000455632500024		
J	Johnson, Sarah A.; Tompkins, Meagan M.; Tompkins, Hayley; Colla, Sheila R.								Artificial Domicile Use by Bumble Bees (<i>Bombus</i>; Hymenoptera: Apidae) in Ontario, Canada								JOURNAL OF INSECT SCIENCE				19	1					7	10.1093/jisesa/iey139			JAN 19 2019	2019	Bumble bees are an important group of pollinating insects that are of increasing conservation concern due to relatively recent and dramatic species-specific declines. Nesting ecology can vary significantly between species, and nest site selection may be affected by many factors, including heredity, individual experience, and habitat availability. Data on bumble bee nesting ecology are inherently difficult to collect in the wild as nests are often cryptic. Artificial domiciles (nest boxes) can be a useful tool for gathering information on species-specific nesting behavior to inform conservation management of native pollinator populations. The aim of this study was to examine the use of three different domicile designs for monitoring bumble bees: aboveground, underground, and false underground, while collecting information on occupying species identity and richness to compare with sampling with traditional netting survey methods. Across Ontario, the majority of sites had at least one domicile occupied, with the aboveground installation method proving most successful whereas no false-underground domiciles were occupied. Occupied domiciles appeared to preferentially sample certain species compared to netting surveys, and rarefied species richness of both methods was similar. Given that some bumble bees did occupy artificial domiciles, and species richness relative to sample size was high, with further refinement, this method may be useful for bumble bee research and monitoring: filling in nesting ecology knowledge gaps and potentially as a conservation management tool.		[Johnson, Sarah A.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biol Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; [Johnson, Sarah A.; Tompkins, Hayley] Wildlife Preservat Canada, Native Pollinator Initiat, 5420 Highway 6 North, Guelph, ON N1H 6J2, Canada; [Tompkins, Meagan M.] York Univ, Dept Biol, 4700 Keele St, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada; [Tompkins, Hayley] Univ Guelph, Sch Environm Sci, 50 Stone Rd East, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada; [Colla, Sheila R.] York Univ, Fac Environm Studies, 4700 Keele St, N York, ON M3J 1P3, Canada; [Johnson, Sarah A.] Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biol Sci, 8888 Univ Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; [Johnson, Sarah A.] Wildlife Preservat Canada, Native Pollinator Initiat, 5420 Highway 6 North, Guelph, ON N1H 6J2, Canada								3							Entomology	WOS:000456494500001		
J	Tsafack, Noelline; Rebaudo, Francois; Wang, Hui; Nagy, David D.; Xie, Yingzhong; Wang, Xinpu; Fattorini, Simone								Carabid community structure in northern China grassland ecosystems: Effects of local habitat on species richness, species composition and functional diversity								PEERJ				6						e6197	10.7717/peerj.6197			JAN 9 2019	2019	Background: Most carabid beetles are particularly sensitive to local habitat characteristics. Although in China grasslands account for more than 40% of the national land, their biodiversity is still poorly known. The aim of this paper is to identify the main environmental characteristics influencing carabid diversity in different types of grassland in northern China. Methods: We investigated the influence of vegetation (plant biomass, cover, density, height and species richness), soil (bulk density, above ground litter, moisture and temperature) and climate (humidity, precipitation and temperature) on carabid community structure (species richness, species composition and functional diversity-measured as body size, movement and total diversity) in three types of grasslands: desert, typical and meadow steppes. We used Canonical correspondence analysis to investigate the role of habitat characteristics on species composition and eigenvector spatial filtering to investigate the responses of species richness and functional diversities. Results: We found that carabid community structure was strongly influenced by local habitat characteristics and particularly by climatic factors. Carabids in the desert steppe showed the lowest richness and functional diversities. Climate predictors (temperature, precipitation and humidity) had positive effects on carabid species richness at both regional and ecosystem levels, with difference among ecosystems. Plant diversity had a positive influence on carabid richness at the regional level. Soil compaction and temperature were negatively related to species richness at regional level. Climatic factors positively influenced functional diversities, whereas soil temperature had negative effects. Soil moisture and temperature were the most important drivers of species composition at regional level, whereas the relative importance of the various environmental parameters varied among ecosystems. Discussion: Carabid responses to environmental characteristics varied among grassland types, which warns against generalizations and indicates that management programs should be considered at grassland scale. Carabid community structure is strongly influenced by climatic factors, and can therefore be particularly sensitive to ongoing climate change.		[Tsafack, Noelline; Wang, Hui; Xie, Yingzhong; Wang, Xinpu] Ningxia Univ, Sch Agr, Yinchuan, Peoples R China; [Rebaudo, Francois] Univ Paris Saclay, Univ Paris Sud, CNRS, UMR EGCE,IRD, Gif Sur Yvette, France; [Nagy, David D.] MTA DE, Biodivers & Ecosyst Serv Res Grp, Egyet Sq 1, Debrecen, Hungary; [Fattorini, Simone] Univ Aquila, Dept Life Hlth & Environm Sci, Laquila, Italy; [Xie, Yingzhong; Wang, Xinpu] Ningxia Univ, Sch Agr, Yinchuan, Peoples R China								25							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000455261800010		
J	Goh, Thaiy Gazi; Loo, Jey-Sern; Farahin-Mustafa, Nur; Saldnah-Myassin, Nur; Hashim, Rosli								The habitat preference of dung beetle species associated with elephant dung of the Malay Peninsula								RAFFLES BULLETIN OF ZOOLOGY				67				328	336		10.26107/RBZ-2019-0024			2019	2019	Dung beetles are often used as indicators of forest health. However, not much is known about the non-forest dwelling dung beetle species of the Malay Peninsula and the species in this habitat have not been compared to communities recorded in anthropogenically altered habitats in South East Asia. Grassland along forest edges is the habitat of grazing megafauna and the dung produced by these mammals is a potentially large resource to dung beetles that can adapt to non-forest habitats. In this study, we classified 25 dung beetle species associated with elephant dung based on their habitat preference. We sampled six different localities on the Malay Peninsula, placing transects within forests and along forest edges. Elephant dung baited traps were deployed at regular intervals along these transects. Forest sampling points had higher abundance, species richness and Shannon diversity than forest edge sampling points, but there was no significant difference in species accumulation curves or rarefied species richness. Hierarchical cluster analysis and ordination indicated a clear division between forest and forest edge species. A binomial generalised linear mixed model further showed that 14 species preferred forest habitats and eight preferred forest edge habitats. These classifications largely agreed with previous habitat preference studies conducted in Borneo and Sulawesi. It is likely that habitat preference in dung beetles is dependent on abiotic factors such as temperature as well as biotic factors such as forest cover and mammalian diversity. The lack of records of non-forest species in literature indicates that non-forest habitats may be neglected in terms of dung beetle studies.		[Goh, Thaiy Gazi; Farahin-Mustafa, Nur; Saldnah-Myassin, Nur; Hashim, Rosli] Univ Malaya, Sci Fac, Inst Biol Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia; [Loo, Jey-Sern] Univ Nottingham, Sch Environm & Geog Sci, Malaysia Campus,Jalan Broga, Kajang 43500, Malaysia; [Goh, Thaiy Gazi] Univ Malaya, Sci Fac, Inst Biol Sci, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia								0							Zoology	WOS:000472631400024		
J	Armstrong, Zoe; Kurek, Joshua								Sensitivity and response of low-nutrient lakes to post twentieth century environmental change in New Brunswick, Canada								JOURNAL OF PALEOLIMNOLOGY				61	1			85	98		10.1007/s10933-018-0046-8			JAN 2019	2019	A paleolimnological approach was used at 45 mostly remote, low-nutrient lakes in New Brunswick (NB), Canada, to determine bioindicator responses and lake sensitivity to post twentieth century environmental change. From each undated core we assessed zooplankton (Cladocera) change between discrete time periods using related assemblage metrics, including the rise of Bosmina sp., cladoceran richness, and average assemblage body size. Cladocerans from a pre-industrial interval (20-20.5 cm) were compared to those from a present-day interval (0-0.5 cm). Lakes were then classified as either high- or low-sensitivity based on assemblage metrics, and sensitivity group differences in physical-chemical measures were tested for significance. Compared to pre-industrial times, Bosmina sp. relative abundance increased in 33 of 43 lakes (75% of lakes surveyed) by on average 20%. Body size and rarefied species richness of assemblages decreased significantly. These ecological shifts detected at an important intermediate trophic level are attributable to indirect effects of climate change, although we cannot rule out shifts in fish predation and littoral habitat as additional structuring factors. Eighteen lakes were classified as high-sensitivity lakes and showed significant differences in latitude, surface area, elevation, dissolved calcium and magnesium concentrations, and conductivity compared to 25 low-sensitivity lakes. In high-sensitivity lakes, richness decreased on average by 6 species and body size decreased by 0.2 mm. This study presents a historical context for constructing effective conservation and management efforts at a time of substantial environmental change in low-nutrient NB lakes.		[Armstrong, Zoe; Kurek, Joshua] Mt Allison Univ, Dept Geog & Environm, 144 Main St, Sackville, NB E4L 1A7, Canada; [Kurek, Joshua] Mt Allison Univ, Dept Geog & Environm, 144 Main St, Sackville, NB E4L 1A7, Canada								6							Environmental Sciences; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Limnology	WOS:000457943500006		
J	Feng, Guang; Li, Jun-Qing; Zang, Run-Guo; Ding, Yi; Ai, Xun-Ru; Yao, Lan								Variation in three community features across habitat types and scales within a 15-ha subtropical evergreen-deciduous broadleaved mixed forest dynamics plot in China								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				8	23			11987	11998		10.1002/ece3.4655			DEC 2018	2018	The evergreen and deciduous broadleaved mixed forests (EDBMFs) belong to one of the ecosystems most sensitive to environmental change, however, little is known about the environmental determinants for their plant diversity and forest structure at different habitat types and spatial scales. Here, we used data from a 15-ha (300 x 500 m) forest dynamic plot (FDP) of an old-growth EDBMF to examine the patterns and determinants of the three community features (stem abundance, rarefied species richness and basal area [BA]) in three habitat types (ridge, hillside and foothill) and at three spatial scales (20 x 20 m, 50 x 50 m, and 100 x 100 m). We found that the three community features significantly changed with habitat type, but only one of them (rarefied richness) changed with scale. Among spatial scales, the principle environmental factors that widely affected community features were pH, soil organic matter, and total phosphorus, while these effects only taken place at certain habitat. Variations in the three community features explained by soil conditions were generally greater than those explained by topographical conditions. With changes in habitat type, the proportion of variations explained by environmental conditions was 31%-53%, 8%-25%, and 18%-26% for abundance, rarefied richness, and BA, respectively. With increasing spatial scale, the variations explained by environmental conditions were 44%-75% for abundance, 28%-95% for rarefied richness, and 18%-86% for BA. Our study demonstrated that environmental factors had great impacts on the plant diversity and forest structure in the EDBMFs, especially the soil factors such as pH. In addition, the importance of the environmental determinants on these community features was highly related to the spatial scale.		[Feng, Guang; Li, Jun-Qing] Beijing Forestry Univ, Key Lab Silviculture & Conservat Minist Educ, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Feng, Guang; Zang, Run-Guo; Ding, Yi] Chinese Acad Forestry, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, State Forestry Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Zang, Run-Guo; Ding, Yi] Nanjing Forestry Univ, Coinnovat Ctr Sustainable Forestry Soouthern Chin, Nanjing, Jiangsu, Peoples R China; [Ai, Xun-Ru; Yao, Lan] Hubei Univ Nationalities, Sch Forestry & Hort, Enshi, Hubei, Peoples R China; [Zang, Run-Guo] Chinese Acad Forestry, Inst Forest Ecol Environm & Protect, State Forestry Adm, Key Lab Forest Ecol & Environm, Beijing, Peoples R China								1							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000454107200052		
J	Motlep, Marilin; Tali, Kadri; Ilves, Aigi; Ounap, Erki; Kull, Tiiu								Management affects the pollinator abundance but not the reproductive success of butterfly orchids								PLANT ECOLOGY				219	11			1329	1339		10.1007/s11258-018-0882-7			NOV 2018	2018	Management of semi-natural grasslands should be based on the requirements of plants as well as their pollinators since conditions beneficial for plants are not necessarily beneficial for their pollinators and vice versa. The factors affecting the reproductive success (fruit set) of Platanthera bifolia and Platanthera chlorantha and their pollinators in agricultural landscape and woodlands were studied. In the years 2014-2016, we observed and caught moths during the flowering period of Platanthera species (late June-mid July) in four pure P. bifolia, five pure P. chlorantha and nine mixed populations under management or no management in Estonia. We determined pollinator species richness, pollinator abundance, fruit set and visibility of Platanthera plants in each population. We found that pollinator assemblages of P. bifolia and P. chlorantha did not differ between managed and unmanaged sites. Pollinator abundance had an effect on the fruit set of P. bifolia but not on that of P. chlorantha. Presence or absence of management, visibility of plants and rarefied pollinator species richness did not affect the fruit set of either plant species. Pollinator abundance was significantly higher in unmanaged populations of both plant species but rarefied pollinator species richness was higher only in unmanaged populations of P. chlorantha. Based on our findings the recommendations for management of semi-natural grasslands are to promote larger landscape diversity for the benefit of moth abundance by leaving unmanaged patches in different parts of a grassland in different years and rotational and post-fruiting management for higher reproductive success of orchids.		[Motlep, Marilin; Tali, Kadri; Ilves, Aigi; Ounap, Erki; Kull, Tiiu] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia; [Ounap, Erki] Univ Tartu, Inst Ecol & Earth Sci, Vanemuise 46, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia; [Motlep, Marilin] Estonian Univ Life Sci, Inst Agr & Environm Sci, Kreutzwaldi 5, EE-51014 Tartu, Estonia								4							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000447398500006		
J	Shimadzu, Hideyasu								On species richness and rarefaction: size- and coverage-based techniques quantify different characteristics of richness change in biodiversity								JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICAL BIOLOGY				77	5			1363	1381		10.1007/s00285-018-1255-5			NOV 2018	2018	Changes in biodiversity today shape the future patterns of biodiversity. This fact underlines the importance of understanding changes in biodiversity through time and space. The number of species, known as species richness, has long been studied as a key indicator that quantifies the state of biodiversity, and standardisation techniques, called rarefaction, have also been used to undertake a fair comparison of the richness observed at different times or locations. The present study asks whether utilising different rarefaction techniques attains comparable results when investigating changes in species richness. The study framework presents the statistical nature of two commonly adopted rarefaction techniques: size-based and coverage-based rarefaction. The key finding is that the rarefied richness results calculated by these two different rarefaction methods reflect different aspects of biodiversity change, the shift in community size and/or composition. This fact illuminates that richness analyses based on different rarefaction techniques can reach different conclusions that may be contradictory. The study also investigates the mechanism creating such divergence. As such, special care is required when evaluating biodiversity change using species richness as an indicator.		[Shimadzu, Hideyasu] Loughborough Univ Technol, Dept Math Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England; [Shimadzu, Hideyasu] Loughborough Univ Technol, Dept Math Sci, Loughborough LE11 3TU, Leics, England								16							Biology; Mathematical & Computational Biology	WOS:000446715000004		
J	Cesar, Ricardo Gomes; Pecchi Leite, Hellen Patricia; Martins, Julia Teixeira; Amarante, Kerolin Moreira; Torres, Bianca Frota; Mello, Felipe Nery Arantes; Vidal, Edson Jose; Santin Brancalion, Pedro Henrique								Shift in Abundance From Seedling to Juvenile Gives Lianas Advantage Over Trees: A Case Study in the Atlantic Forest Hotspot								TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE				11							10.1177/1940082918808062			OCT 31 2018	2018	The Atlantic Forest has been threatened by frequent human disturbances that affect its ecological processes. Lianas are an important component of tropical forest dynamics and, under chronic disturbance, may proliferate vigorously, potentially arresting secondary succession and hindering forest recovery. Our study aims to analyze abundance and diversity of liana and trees in different life stages in a disturbed semidecidual seasonal tropical forest fragment in southeast Brazil. We sampled the species richness and relative abundance in the following life stages of lianas and trees: I-seed (as seed arrival and seed bank processes), II-seedling, III-juvenile, and IV-adult. Lianas are more abundant than trees after the seedling stage, while trees showed more rarefied species richness only at the seed rain stage. Our results show that dispersal does not seem to be a bottleneck for either liana or tree community in disturbed fragments, but competition at the seedling stage may give lianas advantage over trees. Lianas may proliferate abundantly in forest fragments, even decades after disturbance. We recommend interventions for the management and restoration of disturbed forest fragments dominated by lianas to target this life form in life stages where they suppress the forest community, such as after the seedling stage.		[Cesar, Ricardo Gomes; Pecchi Leite, Hellen Patricia; Martins, Julia Teixeira; Amarante, Kerolin Moreira; Torres, Bianca Frota; Vidal, Edson Jose; Santin Brancalion, Pedro Henrique] Univ Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Mello, Felipe Nery Arantes] Marquette Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Milwaukee, WI 53233 USA; [Cesar, Ricardo Gomes] Univ Sao Paulo, LASTROP, Padua Dias Ave 11, BR-13418900 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil								2							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000458845800001		
J	Thorn, Simon; Foerster, Bernhard; Heibl, Christoph; Mueller, Joerg; Baessler, Claus								Influence of macroclimate and local conservation measures on taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic diversities of saproxylic beetles and wood-inhabiting fungi								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				27	12			3119	3135		10.1007/s10531-018-1592-0			OCT 2018	2018	Wood-inhabiting fungi and saproxylic beetles are threatened by habitat degradation. Our understanding of the importance of macroclimate and local factors determining their taxonomic diversity has increased, but determinants of functional and phylogenetic diversity are poorly understood. We investigated assemblages of wood-inhabiting fungi and saproxylic beetles along a 1000 m elevational gradient of a temperate low mountain range. We (i) tested the relative importance of macroclimate (i.e. elevation) and local variables (microclimate, i.e. canopy closure, amount and diversity of dead wood) in determining observed and rarefied diversities and (ii) explored whether determinants of observed functional and phylogenetic diversities match those of taxonomic diversity. For both taxa, the determinants of observed phylogenetic and functional diversities largely matched those of taxonomic diversity. The diversity of wood-inhabiting fungi was predominantly determined by local variables, whereas that of saproxylic beetles was determined by both local variables and elevation. Taxonomic and phylogenetic diversities of saproxylic beetles decreased with increasing elevation, but standardized functional richness and entropy of both groups increased with increasing elevation. Diversities of wood-inhabiting fungi increased with canopy closure, while diversities of saproxylic beetles decreased with increasing canopy closure. Microclimate and dead-wood amount and diversity affected the observed and rarefied diversity of both saproxylic taxa, which justifies conservation actions that focus on attributes of dead wood and canopy cover. The contrasting responses of fungi and beetles highlight the need for amounts of diverse dead wood in the various microclimates to preserve functional and phylogenetic diversities of saproxylic organisms.		[Thorn, Simon; Mueller, Joerg] Univ Wurzburg, Bioctr, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Glashuttenstr 5, D-96181 Rauhenebrach, Germany; [Foerster, Bernhard] Tech Univ Munich, Sch Life Sci, Chair Strateg Landscape Planning & Management, Emil Ramann Str 6, D-85354 Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Heibl, Christoph; Mueller, Joerg; Baessler, Claus] Bavarian Forest Natl Pk, D-94481 Grafenau, Germany; [Baessler, Claus] Tech Univ Munich, Chair Terr Ecol, Hans Carl von Carlowitz Pl 2, D-85354 Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Thorn, Simon] Univ Wurzburg, Bioctr, Field Stn Fabrikschleichach, Glashuttenstr 5, D-96181 Rauhenebrach, Germany								25							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000442731500005		
J	Hopkins, Anna J. M.; Ruthrof, Katinka X.; Fontaine, Joseph B.; Matusick, George; Dundas, Shannon J.; Hardy, Giles E. St J.								Forest die-off following global-change-type drought alters rhizosphere fungal communities								ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH LETTERS				13	9					095006	10.1088/1748-9326/aadc19			SEP 2018	2018	Globally, forest die-off from global-change-type drought events (hotter droughts) are of increasing concern, with effects reported from every forested continent. While implications of global-change-type drought events have been explored for above-ground vegetation, below-ground organisms have received less attention, despite their essential contributions to plant growth, survival, and ecosystem function. We investigated rhizosphere fungal communities in soils beneath trees affected by a global-change-type drought in a Mediterranean climate-type ecosystem in southwestern Australia, quantifying how fungal richness, composition and functional groups varied along a drought impact gradient. Following a forest die-off three years previously, we collected soils beneath dead and alive trees within forest exhibiting high, minimal and relatively unaffected levels of forest die-off. Rhizosphere fungal DNA was extracted from soils, amplified and subjected to high throughput sequencing. Fungal community composition varied significantly (P < 0.001) along the drought impact gradient with less richness in drought affected stands. There was some evidence of community differentiation between dead versus alive trees (P = 0.09), and no difference in rarefied richness and diversity. When considered by functional group, die-off-impacted plots had more arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AM) and saprotrophs, and fewer ectomycorrhizal fungi (ECM), compared with living trees from the unaffected plots. Further, within die-off plots, dead versus alive tree rhizosphere samples contained more AM, saprotrophs and pathogens, and fewer ECM. Disruptions to rhizosphere fungal communities, such as altered functional groups, can have implications for ecosystem persistence and function, particularly in regions projected to experience increased global-change-type drought events.		[Hopkins, Anna J. M.] Edith Cowan Univ, Sch Sci, Ctr Ecosyst Management, Joondalup, WA, Australia; [Hopkins, Anna J. M.; Ruthrof, Katinka X.; Fontaine, Joseph B.; Matusick, George; Dundas, Shannon J.; Hardy, Giles E. St J.] Murdoch Univ, Sch Vet & Life Sci, Environm & Conservat Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Ruthrof, Katinka X.] Kings Pk Sci, Dept Biodivers Conservat & Attract, Kings Pk, WA, Australia; [Dundas, Shannon J.] New South Wales Dept Primary Ind, Orange, NSW, Australia; [Ruthrof, Katinka X.] Murdoch Univ, Sch Vet & Life Sci, Environm & Conservat Sci, Murdoch, WA, Australia; [Ruthrof, Katinka X.] Kings Pk Sci, Dept Biodivers Conservat & Attract, Kings Pk, WA, Australia								15							Environmental Sciences; Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences	WOS:000444293600001		
J	Dattaraja, Handanakere S.; Pulla, Sandeep; Suresh, Hebbalalu S.; Nagaraja, Mavinakoppa S.; Murthy, Chilakunda A. Srinivasa; Sukumar, Raman								Woody plant diversity in relation to environmental factors in a seasonally dry tropical forest landscape								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				29	4			704	714		10.1111/jvs.12652			JUL 2018	2018	QuestionsWater availability is known to be a first-order driver of plant diversity; yet water also affects fire regimes and soil fertility, which, in turn, affect plant diversity. We examined how precipitation, fire and soil properties jointly determine woody plant diversity. Specifically, we asked how woody plant diversity varies along a sharp precipitation gradient (about 600-1,800mm mean annual precipitation [MAP]within a similar to 45-km distance) exhibiting considerable variation in long-term fire burn frequency and soil fertility, in a southern Indian seasonally dry tropical forest (SDTF) landscape. LocationMudumalai, Western Ghats, India. MethodsWoody plants 1-cm DBH were enumerated in 19 1-ha permanent plots spanning a range of tropical vegetation types from dry thorn forest, through dry and moist deciduous forest to semi-evergreen forest. Burn frequencies were derived from annual fire maps. Six measures of surface soil properties - total exchangeable bases (Ca+Mg+K), organic carbon (OC), total N, pH, plant available P and micronutrients (Fe+Cu+Zn+Mn) were used in the analyses. Five measures of diversity - species richness, Shannon diversity, the rarefied/extrapolated versions of these two measures, and Fisher's - were modelled as functions of MAP, annual fire burn frequency and the principal components of soil properties. ResultsMost soil nutrients and OC increased with MAP, except in the wettest sites. Woody productivity increased with MAP, while fire frequency was highest at intermediate values of MAP. Woody plant diversity increased with MAP but decreased with increasing fire frequency, resulting in two local diversity maxima along the MAP gradient - in the semi-evergreen and dry thorn forest - separated by a low-diversity central region in dry deciduous forest where fire frequency was highest. Soil variables were, on the whole, less strongly correlated with diversity than MAP. ConclusionsAlthough woody plant diversity in this landscape, representative of regional SDTFs, is primarily limited by water availability, our study emphasizes the role of fire as a potentially important second-order driver that acts to reduce diversity in this landscape.		[Dattaraja, Handanakere S.; Pulla, Sandeep; Suresh, Hebbalalu S.; Sukumar, Raman] Indian Inst Sci, Ctr Ecol Sci, Bengaluru 560012, India; [Pulla, Sandeep; Suresh, Hebbalalu S.; Sukumar, Raman] Indian Inst Sci, Divecha Ctr Climate Change, Bengaluru, India; [Nagaraja, Mavinakoppa S.] Univ Hort Sci, Dept Soil Sci & Agr Chem, Bagalkot, India; [Murthy, Chilakunda A. Srinivasa] Univ Agr Sci, Dept Soil Sci & Agr Chem, Bengaluru, India; [Pulla, Sandeep] Tata Inst Fundamental Res, Natl Ctr Biol Sci, Bengaluru, India; [Sukumar, Raman] Indian Inst Sci, Ctr Ecol Sci, Bengaluru 560012, India								10							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000443232400013		
J	Phillips, Helen R. P.; Halley, John M.; Urbina-Cardona, J. Nicolas; Purvis, Andy								The effect of fragment area on site-level biodiversity								ECOGRAPHY				41	7			1220	1231		10.1111/ecog.02956			JUL 2018	2018	Habitat fragmentation accompanies habitat loss, and drives additional biodiversity change; but few global biodiversity models explicitly analyse the effects of both fragmentation and loss. Here we propose and test the hypothesis that, as fragment area increases, species density (the number of species in a standardised plot) will scale with an exponent given by the difference between the exponents of the species-area relationships for islands (z similar to 0.25) and in contiguous habitat (z similar to 0.15), and test whether scaling varies between land uses. We also investigate the scaling of overall abundance and rarefaction-based richness, as some mechanisms make different predictions about how fragment area should affect them. The relevant data from the taxonomically and geographically broad PREDICTS database were used to model the three diversity measures, testing their scaling with fragment area and whether the scaling exponent varied among land uses (primary forest, secondary forest, plantation forest, cropland and pasture). In addition, the consistency of the response of species density to fragment area was tested across three well represented taxa (Magnoliopsida, Hymenoptera and herptiles'). Species density and total abundance showed area-scaling exponents of 0.07 and 0.16, respectively, and these exponents did not vary significantly among land uses; rarefaction-based richness by contrast did not increase consistently with area. These results suggest that the area-scaling of species density is driven by the area-scaling of total abundance, with additive edge effects (species moving into the small fragments from the surroundings) opposing - but not fully overcoming - the effect of fragment area on overall density of individuals. The interaction between fragment area and higher taxon (plants, vertebrates and invertebrates), which remained in the rarefied richness model, indicates that mechanisms may vary among groups.		[Phillips, Helen R. P.; Purvis, Andy] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Ascot, Berks, England; [Phillips, Helen R. P.; Purvis, Andy] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Phillips, Helen R. P.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany; [Halley, John M.] Univ Ioannina, Dept Biol Applicat & Technol, Ioannina, Greece; [Urbina-Cardona, J. Nicolas] Pontificia Univ Javeriana, Sch Rural & Environm Studies, Dept Ecol & Terr, Bogota, Colombia; [Phillips, Helen R. P.] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Ascot, Berks, England; [Phillips, Helen R. P.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, London, England; [Phillips, Helen R. P.] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany								25							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000436854100015		
J	Salek, Martin; Bazant, Miroslav; Zmihorski, Michal								Active farmsteads are year-round strongholds for farmland birds								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY				55	4			1908	1918		10.1111/1365-2664.13093			JUL 2018	2018	1. Farmland birds have experienced substantial declines over recent decades and various conservation measures have been designed to halt their massive decrease. The effectiveness of these measures is however limited, due to inappropriate identification of crucial breeding and wintering habitats. Identification of appropriate habitats, like farmsteads, and understanding seasonal changes in species richness and abundance of farmland birds within these habitats may therefore be key for farmland bird conservation. 2. We investigated the effect of variation in farmstead management on alpha and gamma diversity of all farmland birds and red-listed farmland birds in the Czech Republic. In particular, we evaluated the diversity of wintering and breeding birds at over 200 sites to explore: (1) differences in bird communities in three types of farmsteads and open farmland; (2) changes in species-specific habitat preferences between winter and spring; and (3) effect of landscape composition, ruderal vegetation and altitude on bird assemblages. 3. Farmsteads with animal production harboured the highest, whereas open farmland areas had the lowest, species richness and abundance of all farmland birds and redlisted farmland birds. The decline of species richness in winter was more pronounced in farmland and abandoned farmsteads compared to farmsteads with plant and animal production. 4. Single bird species showed different habitat preferences but the majority of species including red-listed farmland birds changed preferences towards animal farmsteads during winter. Bird species richness was negatively correlated with altitude and positively with representation of ruderal vegetation. Rarefied gamma diversity confirmed local patterns for both all species and red-listed species: the highest total species richness was observed in active animal farmsteads but differences among types were significant only during winter. 5. Synthesis and applications. Active farmsteads are local bird diversity hotspots in agricultural landscapes, and host species of conservation concern. Our results highlight the importance of farmsteads during winter, which is a critical period for several wintering farmland species. Our research thus indicates that recent conservation measures for farmland birds should also focus on conservation within nonfarmed habitats, such as actively used farmsteads.		[Salek, Martin] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Vertebrate Biol, Brno, Czech Republic; [Salek, Martin] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Environm Sci, Prague, Czech Republic; [Bazant, Miroslav] Univ South Bohemia, Dept Zool, Fac Sci, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Zmihorski, Michal] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, Uppsala, Sweden; [Zmihorski, Michal] Polish Acad Sci, Inst Nat Conservat, Krakow, Poland; [Salek, Martin] Czech Acad Sci, Inst Vertebrate Biol, Brno, Czech Republic; [Salek, Martin] Czech Univ Life Sci Prague, Fac Environm Sci, Prague, Czech Republic								28							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000434970200032		
J	Lourenco, Pedro M.; Granadeiro, Jose P.; Catry, Teresa								Low macroinvertebrate biomass suggests limited food availability for shorebird communities in intertidal areas of the Bijagos archipelago (Guinea-Bissau)								HYDROBIOLOGIA				816	1			197	212		10.1007/s10750-018-3584-1			JUL 2018	2018	Knowledge of the macrozoobenthic community and its interactions with predators is critical for understanding intertidal ecosystems but this information is still lacking for many tropical sites. We core-sampled three intertidal areas in the Bijagos archipelago, Guinea-Bissau, one of the largest intertidal wetlands in West Africa, to evaluate macroinvertebrate abundance and diversity, investigate ecological variables influencing macroinvertebrate distribution, and estimate food availability for several shorebird species. We found a low macroinvertebrate biomass, which mostly consisted of bivalves and polychaetes. The fiddler crab Afruca tangeri was also among the more abundant species. Both Shannon diversity and rarefied species richness indicate macrozoobenthic communities in the Bijagos have low diversity but there is large variation in species composition among sites. Sediment fine fraction, organic content and distance to the coast were correlated with the abundance of several macroinvertebrate taxa. Harvestable biomass for the shorebird species studied was very low, below the values described for intertidal sites in temperate areas and some other sites in the tropics. Although this fits with low shorebird densities in the Bijagos, it also suggests that wintering shorebird communities must depend on secondary production by macrobenthic invertebrates during the winter, in the same way as has been proposed for other tropical intertidal systems.		[Lourenco, Pedro M.; Granadeiro, Jose P.; Catry, Teresa] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, Dept Biol Anim, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal; [Lourenco, Pedro M.] Univ Lisbon, Fac Ciencias, Ctr Estudos Ambiente & Mar CESAM, Dept Biol Anim, P-1749016 Lisbon, Portugal								14							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000431398300015		
J	Pais, Andrew L.; Li, Xu; Xiang, Qiu-Yun (Jenny)								Discovering variation of secondary metabolite diversity and its relationship with disease resistance in <i>Cornus florida</i> L.								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				8	11			5619	5636		10.1002/ece3.4090			JUN 2018	2018	Understanding intraspecific relationships between genetic and functional diversity is a major goal in the field of evolutionary biology and is important for conserving biodiversity. Linking intraspecific molecular patterns of plants to ecological pressures and trait variation remains difficult due to environment-driven plasticity. Next-generation sequencing, untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) profiling, and interdisciplinary approaches integrating population genomics, metabolomics, and community ecology permit novel strategies to tackle this problem. We analyzed six natural populations of the disease-threatened Cornus florida L. from distinct ecological regions using genotype-by-sequencing markers and LC-MS-based untargeted metabolite profiling. We tested the hypothesis that higher genetic diversity in C.florida yielded higher chemical diversity and less disease susceptibility (screening hypothesis), and we also determined whether genetically similar subpopulations were similar in chemical composition. Most importantly, we identified metabolites that were associated with candidate loci or were predictive biomarkers of healthy or diseased plants after controlling for environment. Subpopulation clustering patterns based on genetic or chemical distances were largely congruent. While differences in genetic diversity were small among subpopulations, we did observe notable similarities in patterns between subpopulation averages of rarefied-allelic and chemical richness. More specifically, we found that the most abundant compound of a correlated group of putative terpenoid glycosides and derivatives was correlated with tree health when considering chemodiversity. Random forest biomarker and genomewide association tests suggested that this putative iridoid glucoside and other closely associated chemical features were correlated to SNPs under selection.		[Pais, Andrew L.; Li, Xu; Xiang, Qiu-Yun (Jenny)] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Plant & Microbial Biol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Li, Xu] North Carolina State Univ, Plants Human Hlth Inst, Kannapolis, NC USA; [Pais, Andrew L.; Xiang, Qiu-Yun (Jenny)] North Carolina State Univ, Dept Plant & Microbial Biol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA								15							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000435776600036		
J	Close, Roger A.; Evers, Serjoscha W.; Alroy, John; Butler, Richard J.								How should we estimate diversity in the fossil record? Testing richness estimators using sampling-standardised discovery curves								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				9	6			1386	1400		10.1111/2041-210X.12987			JUN 2018	2018	1. To infer genuine patterns of biodiversity change in the fossil record, we must be able to accurately estimate relative differences in numbers of taxa (richness) despite considerable variation in sampling between time intervals. Popular subsampling (=interpolation) methods aim to standardise diversity samples by rarefying the data to equal sample size or equal sample completeness (=coverage). Standardising by sample size is misleading because it compresses richness ratios, thereby flattening diversity curves. However, standardising by coverage reconstructs relative richness ratios with high accuracy. Asymptotic richness extrapolators are widely used in ecology, but rarely applied to fossil data. However, a recently developed parametric extrapolation method, TRiPS (True Richness estimation using Poisson Sampling), specifically aims to estimate the true richness of fossil assemblages. 2. Here, we examine the suitability of a range of richness estimators (both interpolators and extrapolators) for fossil datasets, using simulations and a novel method for comparing the performance of richness estimators with empirical data. We constructed sampling-standardised discovery curves (SSDCs) for two datasets, each spanning 150 years of palaeontological research: Mesozoic dinosaurs at global scale, and Mesozoic-early Cenozoic tetrapods from North America. These approaches reveal how each richness estimator responds to both simulated best-case and empirical real-world accumulation of fossil occurrences. 3. We find that extrapolators can only truly standardise diversity data once sampling is sufficient for richness estimates to have asymptoted. Below this point, directly comparing extrapolated estimates derived from samples of different sizes may not accurately reconstruct relative richness ratios. When abundance distributions are not perfectly flat and sampling is moderate to good, but not perfect, TRiPS does not extrapolate, because it overestimates binomial sampling probabilities. Coverage-based interpolators, by contrast, generally yield more stable subsampled diversity estimates, even in the face of dramatic increases in face-value counts of species richness. Richness estimators that standardise by coverage are among the best currently available methods for reconstructing deep-time biodiversity patterns. However, we recommend the use of sampling-standardised discovery curves to understand how biased reporting of fossil occurrences may affect sampling-standardised diversity estimates.		[Close, Roger A.; Butler, Richard J.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Evers, Serjoscha W.] Univ Oxford, Dept Earth Sci, Oxford, England; [Alroy, John] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Fac Sci & Engn, Sydney, NSW, Australia; [Close, Roger A.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England								57							Ecology	WOS:000434977100003		
J	Muler, Ana Elena; Prieto, Pablo Viany; Richards, Ryan C.; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.; Alvarenga Braga, Joao Marcelo								Ecological outcomes and popular perceptions of urban restored forests in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil								ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION				45	2			155	162		10.1017/S0376892917000388			JUN 2018	2018	Ecological restoration is suggested as a tool to mitigate environmental problems caused by urbanization, but its utility may be hampered by conflict between ecological design and neighbouring communities' needs. We explore this issue by comparing vegetation diversity and structure in a 21-year-old urban reforestation project in Rio de Janeiro city, Brazil, with a nearby reference forest, and we assessed popular perceptions about the project. Overall, density and basal area of canopy trees in the restoration plantation reached 73% and 46%, respectively, of the values found in the reference forest, but ground cover by exotic grasses was substantially higher in the planted forest. Rarefied species richness was similarly high in the plantation forest (59 species) and in the remnant forest (69 species), but species composition was markedly different. The human legacy on restoration diminished with time, reflected in the higher proportion of species and individuals of late-successional, native and not-planted species in the seedling community of the plantation forest. While community perceptions of reforestation were positive and both use and non-use values were reported, interviewees reported little involvement in the development of the project, which could have contributed to synergies between ecological and social outcomes.		[Muler, Ana Elena; Prieto, Pablo Viany; Alvarenga Braga, Joao Marcelo] Inst Pesquisas Jardim Bot Rio de Janeiro, Jardim Bot, Rua Pacheco Leao 915, BR-22460030 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Richards, Ryan C.; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Ave Padua Dias 11, BR-13418900 Piracicaba, Brazil; [Richards, Ryan C.] George Mason Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, 4400 Univ Dr, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Richards, Ryan C.] Smithsonian Conservat Biol Inst, Ctr Conservat & Sustainabil, Natl Zool Pk, Washington, DC USA; [Muler, Ana Elena] Inst Pesquisas Jardim Bot Rio de Janeiro, Jardim Bot, Rua Pacheco Leao 915, BR-22460030 Rio De Janeiro, Brazil								4							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000432394500006		
J	Martins, Kyle T.; Albert, Cecile H.; Lechowicz, Martin J.; Gonzalez, Andrew								Complementary crops and landscape features sustain wild bee communities								ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS				28	4			1093	1105		10.1002/eap.1713			JUN 2018	2018	Wild bees, which are important for commercial pollination, depend on floral and nesting resources both at farms and in the surrounding landscape. Mass-flowering crops are only in bloom for a few weeks and unable to support bee populations that persist throughout the year. Farm fields and orchards that flower in succession potentially can extend the availability of floral resources for pollinators. However, it is unclear whether the same bee species or genera will forage from one crop to the next, which bees specialize on particular crops, and to what degree inter-crop visitation patterns will be mediated by landscape context. We therefore studied local- and landscape-level drivers of bee diversity and species turnover in apple orchards, blueberry fields, and raspberry fields that bloom sequentially in southern Quebec, Canada. Despite the presence of high bee species turnover, orchards and small fruit fields complemented each other phenologically by supporting two bee genera essential to their pollination: mining bees (Andrena spp.) and bumble bees (Bombus spp.). A number of bee species specialized on apple, blueberry, or raspberry blossoms, suggesting that all three crops could be used to promote regional bee diversity. Bee diversity (rarefied richness, wild bee abundance) was highest across crops in landscapes containing hedgerows, meadows, and suburban areas that provide ancillary nesting and floral resources throughout the spring and summer. Promoting phenological complementarity in floral resources at the farmstead and landscape scales is essential to sustaining diverse wild bee populations.		[Martins, Kyle T.; Lechowicz, Martin J.; Gonzalez, Andrew] McGill Univ, Dept Biol, 1205 Doctor Penfield Ave, Montreal, PQ H3A 1B1, Canada; [Albert, Cecile H.] Aix Marseille Univ, Univ Avignon, CNRS, IRD,IMBE, Technopole Arbois Mediterranee Bat,Villemin BP 80, F-13545 Aix En Provence 04, France; [Martins, Kyle T.] McGill Univ, Dept Biol, 1205 Doctor Penfield Ave, Montreal, PQ H3A 1B1, Canada								41							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000434092200019		
J	Correll, Maureen D.; Wiest, Whitney A.; Hodgman, Thomas P.; Kelley, Joseph T.; Mcgill, Brian J.; Elphick, Chris S.; Shriver, W. Gregory; Conway, Meaghan; Field, Christopher R.; Olsen, Brian J.								A Pleistocene disturbance event describes modern diversity patterns in tidal marsh birds								ECOGRAPHY				41	4			684	694		10.1111/ecog.02937			APR 2018	2018	There is growing evidence to support that paleo-timescale events are important determinants in the present-day distribution of organisms. We explored the relationship between community composition of tidal marsh birds in the northeastern United States and potential drivers of biodiversity patterns across timescales to explore the relevance of historical contingency in this ecosystem. These potential predictors represent some of the major known influences on biodiversity in tidal marshes, including 1) a recent, intense hurricane event driving a large-scale perturbation of this ecosystem (4 yr), 2) gradual modification of marshes through installation of human infrastructure (similar to 150 yr), and 3) marsh formation and development after the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM, similar to 20 000 yr). We surveyed > 1300 locations in tidal marshes from 2011-2014 using passive point count methods to measure bird community composition at these points. We found that rarefied richness, total individuals (N), and total biomass were best explained by a quadratic relationship with marsh age peaking at 40 degrees latitude, the location of the Last Glacial Maximum of the Laurentide ice sheet. We hypothesize that formation of marsh millennia earlier in the southern part of our survey area allowed for earlier evolution of specialization to tidal marsh by bird species than those occupying much younger, northern marshes, which could have then driven differential rates of colonization in the north (by habitat generalists) and competitive exclusion in the south (by habitat specialists). We tested this theory using a novel functional diversity metric (community habitat specialization index, or CHSI) and find that community specialization decreased linearly with marsh age, supporting our hypothesis. Our findings highlight the importance for consideration of historical contingency in biodiversity research and further exploration of mechanisms operating across geological timescales.		[Correll, Maureen D.; Mcgill, Brian J.; Conway, Meaghan; Olsen, Brian J.] Univ Maine, Sch Biol & Ecol, Orono, ME 04469 USA; [Wiest, Whitney A.; Shriver, W. Gregory] Univ Delaware, Dept Entomol & Wildlife Ecol, Newark, DE USA; [Hodgman, Thomas P.] Maine Dept Inland Fisheries & Wildlife, Bangor, ME USA; [Kelley, Joseph T.] Univ Maine, Sch Earth & Climate Sci, Orono, ME USA; [Elphick, Chris S.; Field, Christopher R.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT USA; [Elphick, Chris S.; Field, Christopher R.] Univ Connecticut, Ctr Conservat & Biodivers, Storrs, CT USA; [Correll, Maureen D.] Univ Maine, Sch Biol & Ecol, Orono, ME 04469 USA								2							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000428793500010		
J	Asmus, Ashley; Koltz, Amanda; McLaren, Jennie; Shaver, Gaius R.; Gough, Laura								Long-term nutrient addition alters arthropod community composition but does not increase total biomass or abundance								OIKOS				127	3			460	471		10.1111/oik.04398			MAR 2018	2018	A simple bottom-up hypothesis predicts that plant responses to nutrient addition should determine the response of consumers: more productive and less diverse plant communities, the usual result of long-term nutrient addition, should support greater consumer abundances and biomass and less consumer diversity. We tested this hypothesis for the response of an aboveground arthropod community to an uncommonly long-term (24-year) nutrient addition experiment in moist acidic tundra in arctic Alaska. This experiment altered plant community composition, decreased plant diversity and increased plant production and biomass as a deciduous shrub, Betula nana, became dominant. Consistent with strong effects on the plant community, nutrient addition altered arthropod community composition, primarily through changes to herbivore taxa in the canopy-dwelling arthropod assemblage and detritivore taxa in the ground assemblage. Surprisingly, however, the loss of more than half of plant species was accompanied by negligible changes to diversity (rarefied richness) of arthropod taxa (which were primarily identified to family). Similarly, although long-term nutrient addition in this system roughly doubles plant production and biomass, arthropod abundance was either unchanged or decreased by nutrient addition, and total arthropod biomass was unaffected. Our findings differ markedly from the handful of terrestrial studies that have found bottom-up diversity cascades and productivity responses by consumers to nutrient addition. This is probably because unlike grasslands and salt marshes (where such studies have historically been conducted), this arctic tundra community becomes less palatable, rather than more so, after many years of nutrient addition due to increased dominance of B. nana. Additionally, by displacing insulating mosses and increasing the cover of shrubs that cool and shade the canopy microenvironment, fertilization may displace arthropods keenly attuned to microclimate. These results indicate that terrestrial arthropod assemblages may be more constrained by producer traits (i.e. palatability, structure) than they are by total primary production or producer diversity.		[Asmus, Ashley] Univ Minnesota, Dept Ecol Evolut & Behav, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Asmus, Ashley; Gough, Laura] Univ Texas Arlington, Dept Biol, Arlington, TX 76019 USA; [Gough, Laura] Towson Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Towson, MD USA; [Koltz, Amanda] Washington Univ St Louis, Dept Biol, Washington, DC USA; [McLaren, Jennie] Univ Texas El Paso, Dept Biol Sci, El Paso, TX 79968 USA; [Shaver, Gaius R.] Marine Biol Lab, Ecosyst Ctr, Woods Hole, MA 02543 USA; [Asmus, Ashley] Univ Minnesota, Dept Ecol Evolut & Behav, St Paul, MN 55108 USA; [Asmus, Ashley] Univ Texas Arlington, Dept Biol, Arlington, TX 76019 USA								3							Ecology	WOS:000426652500013		
J	Cesar, Ricardo G.; Moreno, Vanessa S.; Coletta, Gabriel D.; Chazdon, Robin L.; Ferraz, Silvio F. B.; de Almeida, Danilo R. A.; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.								Early ecological outcomes of natural regeneration and tree plantations for restoring agricultural landscapes								ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS				28	2			373	384		10.1002/eap.1653			MAR 2018	2018	Mixed tree plantings and natural regeneration are the main restoration approaches for recovering tropical forests worldwide. Despite substantial differences in implementation costs between these methods, little is known regarding how they differ in terms of ecological outcomes, which is key information for guiding decision making and cost-effective restoration planning. Here, we compared the early ecological outcomes of natural regeneration and tree plantations for restoring the Brazilian Atlantic Forest in agricultural landscapes. We assessed and compared vegetation structure and composition in young (7-20yr old) mixed tree plantings (PL), second-growth tropical forests established on former pastures (SGp), on former Eucalyptus spp. plantations (SGe), and in old-growth reference forests (Ref). We sampled trees with diameter at breast height (DBH) 1-5cm (saplings) and trees at DBH > 5cm (trees) in a total of 32 20x45m plots established in these landscapes. Overall, the ecological outcomes of natural regeneration and restoration plantations were markedly different. SGe forests showed higher abundance of large (DBH>20cm) nonnative species, of which 98% were resprouting Eucalyptus trees, than SGp and PL, and higher total aboveground biomass; however, aboveground biomass of native species was higher in PL than in SGe. PL forests had lower abundance of native saplings and lianas than both naturally established second-growth forests, and lower proportion of animal dispersed saplings than SGe, probably due to higher isolation from native forest remnants. Rarefied species richness of trees was lower in SGp, intermediate in SGe and Ref and higher in PL, whereas rarefied species richness of saplings was higher in SG than in Ref. Species composition differed considerably among regeneration types. Although these forests are inevitably bound to specific landscape contexts and may present varying outcomes as they develop through longer time frames, the ecological particularities of forests established through different restoration approaches indicate that naturally established forests may not show similar outcomes to mixed tree plantings. The results of this study underscore the importance that restoration decisions need to be based on more robust expectations of outcomes that allow for a better analysis of the cost-effectiveness of different restoration approaches before scaling-up forest restoration in the tropics.		[Cesar, Ricardo G.; Moreno, Vanessa S.; Chazdon, Robin L.; Ferraz, Silvio F. B.; de Almeida, Danilo R. A.; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Padua Dias Ave 11, BR-13400970 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Coletta, Gabriel D.] Univ Estadual Campinas, UNICAMP, Inst Biol, Cidade Univ Zeferino Vaz Barao Geraldo, BR-13083970 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Chazdon, Robin L.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Cesar, Ricardo G.] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Padua Dias Ave 11, BR-13400970 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil								32							Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000426499100010		
J	Ayala-Orozco, Barbara; Gavito, Mayra E.; Mora, Francisco; Siddique, Ilyas; Balvanera, Patricia; Jaramillo, Victor J.; Cotler, Helena; Romero-Duque, Luz P.; Martinez-Meyer, Enrique								RESILIENCE OF SOIL PROPERTIES TO LAND-USE CHANGE IN A TROPICAL DRY FOREST ECOSYSTEM								LAND DEGRADATION & DEVELOPMENT				29	2			315	325		10.1002/ldr.2686			FEB 2018	2018	Land-use change in tropical dry forests can dramatically alter soil properties, but little is known about their resilience. We assessed soil resilience by examining resistance to, as well as recovery from, pasture use by smallholder farmers in western Mexico. We measured 25 soil and vegetation properties and compared old-growth forest (OGF) sites and pastures to evaluate resistance to pasture use. We assessed whether those properties recovered to OGF reference values after pasture abandonment by analyzing the trajectories of properties along a chronosequence of secondary vegetation. Finally, we assessed whether recovery of soil properties could be inferred from the recovery of vegetation properties. Nine out of 25 properties differed significantly between the OGF sites and pastures. From these nine nonresistant properties, six (i.e., penetration resistance, soil C concentration, soil C/N, basal area, individual density, rarefied species richness of woody vegetation) showed recovery as a significant positive relationship with forest age. In contrast, surface litter C, litter C/N, and soil available P showed no resistance and no recovery within the successional period examined (up to 35 y). The best vegetation indicator for the recovery of some soil properties was woody species richness. This may suggest that functional differences of colonizing plants matter for recovery after pasture use. Our findings indicate that soil was overall resilient to pasture use, but some properties did not recover synchronously with vegetation properties during succession. Thus, more attention should be paid to soil function, because full ecosystem recovery is often inferred from the recovery of vegetation properties. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		[Ayala-Orozco, Barbara; Gavito, Mayra E.; Mora, Francisco; Siddique, Ilyas; Balvanera, Patricia; Jaramillo, Victor J.; Romero-Duque, Luz P.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Invest Ecosistemas & Sustentabilidad, Antigua Carretera Patzcuaro 8701, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico; [Ayala-Orozco, Barbara] Consejo Nacl Ciencia & Technol, Catedras CONACYT, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Mora, Francisco; Cotler, Helena] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Martinez-Meyer, Enrique] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Biol, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Siddique, Ilyas] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Ctr Ciencias Agr, Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [Romero-Duque, Luz P.] Univ Ciencias Aplicadas & Ambientales, Bogota, Colombia; [Cotler, Helena] Ctr Invest Geog & Geomat Ing Jorge L Tamayo AC, Mexico City, DF, Mexico; [Gavito, Mayra E.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Invest Ecosistemas & Sustentabilidad, Antigua Carretera Patzcuaro 8701, Morelia 58190, Michoacan, Mexico								42							Environmental Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000425100700013		
J	Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Manchester, Steven R.; Jaramillo, Carlos A.; Quiroz, Luis; Fortini, Lucas								Floristic and climatic reconstructions of two Lower Cretaceous successions from Peru								PALYNOLOGY				42	3			420	433		10.1080/01916122.2017.1373310			2018	2018	Climate during the Early Cretaceous in tropical South America has often been reconstructed as arid. However, some areas seem to have been humid. We reconstructed the floristic composition of two tropical stratigraphic successions in Peru using quantitative palynology (rarefied species richness and abundance), and used the abundance of aridity vs. humidity indicator species to infer the predominant climate conditions of this region. The Berriasian to Hauterivian La Merced succession was dominated by fern spores and was predominantly humid. The Albian Aguas Frias succession yielded rich palynofloras, with 127 species, and also indicates predominantly humid conditions. These results support the hypothesis that the west margin of South America was humid during the Early Cretaceous, thus improving the tropical climate reconstructions during the Cretaceous severe global warming episodes.		[Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Univ Hawaii, Leeward Community Coll, Math & Sci Div, 96-045 Ala Ike, Pearl City, HI 96782 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Manchester, Steven R.] Univ Florida, Florida Museum Nat Hist, POB 117800, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Manchester, Steven R.] Univ Florida, Biol Dept, POB 117800, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Jaramillo, Carlos A.; Quiroz, Luis] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Panama City, Panama; [Quiroz, Luis] Univ Saskatchewan, Dept Geol Sci, Saskatoon, SK S7N 5E2, Canada; [Fortini, Lucas] US Geol Survey, Pacific Isl Ecosyst Res Ctr, 677 Ala Moana Blvd,Suite 320, Honolulu, HI USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Univ Hawaii, Leeward Community Coll, Math & Sci Div, 96-045 Ala Ike, Pearl City, HI 96782 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Univ Florida, Florida Museum Nat Hist, POB 117800, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Univ Florida, Biol Dept, POB 117800, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Panama City, Panama								6							Plant Sciences; Paleontology	WOS:000440057100010		
J	Dejean, Alain; Petitclerc, Frederic; Azemar, Frederic; Pelozuelo, Laurent; Talaga, Stanislas; Leponce, Maurice; Compin, Arthur								Aquatic life in Neotropical rainforest canopies: Techniques using artificial phytotelmata to study the invertebrate communities inhabiting therein								COMPTES RENDUS BIOLOGIES				341	1			20	27		10.1016/j.crvi.2017.10.003			JAN 2018	2018	In Neotropical rainforest canopies, phytotelmata ("plant-held waters'') shelter diverse aquatic macroinvertebrate communities, including vectors of animal diseases. Studying these communities is difficult because phytotelmata are widely dispersed, hard to find from the ground and often inaccessible. We propose here a method for placing in tree crowns "artificial phytotelmata'' whose size and shape can be tailored to different research targets. The efficacy of this method was shown while comparing the patterns of community diversity of three forest formations. We noted a difference between a riparian forest and a rainforest, whereas trees alongside a dirt road cutting through that rainforest corresponded to a subset of the latter. Because rarefied species richness was significantly lower when the phytotelmata were left for three weeks rather than for six or nine weeks, we recommend leaving the phytotelmata for twelve weeks to permit predators and phoretic species to fully establish themselves. (C) 2017 Academie des sciences. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.		[Dejean, Alain; Azemar, Frederic; Pelozuelo, Laurent; Compin, Arthur] Univ Toulouse, UPS, CNRS, EcoLab,INPT, F-31062 Toulouse, France; [Dejean, Alain; Petitclerc, Frederic] Univ Guyane, Univ Antilles, AgroParisTech, CNRS,UMR EcoFoG,Cirad,INRA, F-97310 Kourou, France; [Talaga, Stanislas] Inst Pasteur Guyane, Unite Entomol Med, 23 Ave Pasteur,BP 6010, F-97306 Cayenne, France; [Leponce, Maurice] Royal Belgian Inst Nat Sci, Aquat & Terr Ecol, 29 Rue Vautier, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium; [Dejean, Alain] Univ Toulouse, Lab Ecol Fonct & Environm, Batiment 4R1,118 Route Narbonne, F-31062 Toulouse, France								0							Biology	WOS:000422800000004		
J	Zuo, Yu; Xie, Wenfang; Pang, Yue; Li, Tiesong; Li, Qingwei; Li, Yingying								Bacterial community composition in the gut content of <i>Lampetra japonica</i> revealed by 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing								PLOS ONE				12	12					e0188919	10.1371/journal.pone.0188919			DEC 5 2017	2017	The composition of the bacterial communities in the hindgut contents of Lampetrs japonica was surveyed by Illumina MiSeq of the 16S rRNA gene. An average of 32385 optimized reads was obtained from three samples. The rarefaction curve based on the operational taxonomic units tended to approach the asymptote. The rank abundance curve representing the species richness and evenness was calculated. The composition of microbe in six classification levels was also analyzed. Top 20 members in genera level were displayed as the classification tree. The abundance of microorganisms in different individuals was displayed as the pie charts at the branch nodes in the classification tree. The differences of top 50 genera in abundance between individuals of lamprey are displayed as a heatmap. The pairwise comparison of bacterial taxa abundance revealed that there are no significant differences of gut microbiota between three individuals of lamprey at a given rarefied depth. Also, the gut microbiota derived from L. japonica displays little similarity with other aquatic organism of Vertebrata after UPGMA analysis. The metabolic function of the bacterial communities was predicted through KEGG analysis. This study represents the first analysis of the bacterial community composition in the gut content of L. japonica. The investigation of the gut microbiota associated with L. japonica will broaden our understanding of this unique organism.		[Zuo, Yu; Xie, Wenfang; Pang, Yue; Li, Tiesong; Li, Qingwei; Li, Yingying] Liaoning Normal Univ, Sch Life Sci, Dalian, Peoples R China; [Zuo, Yu; Xie, Wenfang; Pang, Yue; Li, Tiesong; Li, Qingwei; Li, Yingying] Liaoning Normal Univ, Lamprey Res Ctr, Dalian, Peoples R China; [Li, Qingwei; Li, Yingying] Liaoning Normal Univ, Sch Life Sci, Dalian, Peoples R China; [Li, Qingwei; Li, Yingying] Liaoning Normal Univ, Lamprey Res Ctr, Dalian, Peoples R China								16							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000417110700031		
J	Brown, Jason L.; Bennett, Joseph R.; French, Connor M.								SDMtoolbox 2.0: the next generation Python-based GIS toolkit for landscape genetic, biogeographic and species distribution model analyses								PEERJ				5						e4095	10.7717/peerj.4095			DEC 5 2017	2017	SDMtoolbox 2.0 is a software package for spatial studies of ecology, evolution, and genetics. The release of SDMtoolbox 2.0 allows researchers to use the most current ArcGIS software and MaxEnt software, and reduces the amount of time that would be spent developing common solutions. The central aim of this software is to automate complicated and repetitive spatial analyses in an intuitive graphical user interface. One core tenant facilitates careful parameterization of species distribution models (SDMs) to maximize each model's discriminatory ability and minimize overfitting. This includes carefully processing of occurrence data, environmental data, and model parameterization. This program directly interfaces with MaxEnt, one of the most powerful and widely used species distribution modeling software programs, although SDMtoolbox 2.0 is not limited to species distribution modeling or restricted to modeling in MaxEnt. Many of the SDM pre- and post-processing tools have 'universal' analogs for use with any modeling software. The current version contains a total of 79 scripts that harness the power of ArcGIS for macroecology, landscape genetics, and evolutionary studies. For example, these tools allow for biodiversity quantification (such as species richness or corrected weighted endemism), generation of least-cost paths and corridors among shared haplotypes, assessment of the significance of spatial randomizations, and enforcement of dispersallimitations of SDMs projected into future climates-to only name a few functions contained in SDMtoolbox 2.0. Lastly, dozens of generalized tools exists for batch processing and conversion of GIS data types or formats, which are broadly useful to any ArcMap user.		[Brown, Jason L.; Bennett, Joseph R.; French, Connor M.] Southern Illinois Univ Carbondale, Dept Zool, Cooperat Wildlife Res Lab, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Brown, Jason L.] Southern Illinois Univ Carbondale, Dept Zool, Cooperat Wildlife Res Lab, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA								391							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000417100100002		
J	Poorter, Lourens; van der Sande, Masha T.; Arets, Eric J. M. M.; Ascarrunz, Nataly; Enquist, Brian; Finegan, Bryan; Licona, Juan Carlos; Martinez-Ramos, Miguel; Mazzei, Lucas; Meave, Jorge A.; Munoz, Rodrigo; Nytch, Christopher J.; de Oliveira, Alexandre A.; Perez-Garcia, Eduardo A.; Prado-Junior, Jamir; Rodriguez-Velazques, Jorge; Ruschel, Ademir Roberto; Salgado-Negret, Beatriz; Schiavini, Ivan; Swenson, Nathan G.; Tenorio, Elkin A.; Thompson, Jill; Toledo, Marisol; Uriarte, Maria; van der Hout, Peter; Zimmerman, Jess K.; Pena-Claros, Marielos								Biodiversity and climate determine the functioning of Neotropical forests								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				26	12			1423	1434		10.1111/geb.12668			DEC 2017	2017	Aim: Tropical forests account for a quarter of the global carbon storage and a third of the terrestrial productivity. Few studies have teased apart the relative importance of environmental factors and forest attributes for ecosystem functioning, especially for the tropics. This study aims to relate aboveground biomass (AGB) and biomass dynamics (i.e., net biomass productivity and its underlying demographic drivers: biomass recruitment, growth and mortality) to forest attributes (tree diversity, community-mean traits and stand basal area) and environmental conditions (water availability, soil fertility and disturbance). Location: Neotropics. Methods: We used data from 26 sites, 201 1-ha plots and >92,000 trees distributed across the Neotropics. We quantified for each site water availability and soil total exchangeable bases and for each plot three key community-weighted mean functional traits that are important for biomass stocks and productivity. We used structural equation models to test the hypothesis that all drivers have independent, positive effects on biomass stocks and dynamics. Results: Of the relationships analysed, vegetation attributes were more frequently associated significantly with biomass stocks and dynamics than environmental conditions (in 67 vs. 33% of the relationships). High climatic water availability increased biomass growth and stocks, light disturbance increased biomass growth, and soil bases had no effect. Rarefied tree species richness had consistent positive relationships with biomass stocks and dynamics, probably because of niche complementarity, but was not related to net biomass productivity. Community-mean traits were good predictors of biomass stocks and dynamics. Main conclusions: Water availability has a strong positive effect on biomass stocks and growth, and a future predicted increase in (atmospheric) drought might, therefore, potentially reduce carbon storage. Forest attributes, including species diversity and community-weighted mean traits, have independent and important relationships with AGB stocks, dynamics and ecosystem functioning, not only in relatively simple temperate systems, but also in structurally complex hyper-diverse tropical forests.		[Poorter, Lourens; van der Sande, Masha T.; Pena-Claros, Marielos] Wageningen Univ & Res, Forest Ecol & Forest Management Grp, POB 47, Wageningen, Netherlands; [van der Sande, Masha T.; Arets, Eric J. M. M.] Wageningen Univ & Res, Wageningen Environm Res Alterra, Wageningen, Netherlands; [Ascarrunz, Nataly; Licona, Juan Carlos; Toledo, Marisol] FCA UAGRM, El Vallecito, IBIF, Santa Cruz, Bolivia; [Enquist, Brian] Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolut Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Finegan, Bryan] CATIE, Prod & Conservat Forests Programme, Turrialba, Costa Rica; [Martinez-Ramos, Miguel; Rodriguez-Velazques, Jorge] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Invest Ecosistemas & Sustentabilidad, Lab Ecol & Manejo Bosqques Trop, Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico; [Mazzei, Lucas; Ruschel, Ademir Roberto] Embrapa Amazonia Oriental, Forest Management & Conservat Grp, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Meave, Jorge A.; Munoz, Rodrigo; Perez-Garcia, Eduardo A.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Dept Ecol & Recursos Nat, Fac Ciencias, Ciudad De Mexico, Mexico; [Nytch, Christopher J.; Thompson, Jill; Zimmerman, Jess K.] Univ Puerto Rico, Dept Environm Sci, San Juan, PR USA; [de Oliveira, Alexandre A.] Univ Sao Paulo, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Prado-Junior, Jamir] Univ Fed Uberlandia, Biol Inst, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil; [Salgado-Negret, Beatriz; Schiavini, Ivan; Tenorio, Elkin A.] Inst Invest Recursos Biol Alexander von Humboldt, Bogota, Colombia; [Salgado-Negret, Beatriz] Univ Norte, Dept Quim & Biol, Barranquilla, Colombia; [Swenson, Nathan G.] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Tenorio, Elkin A.] Calima Fdn Invest Biodiversidad & Conservac Trop, Cali, Colombia; [Thompson, Jill] Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Bush Estate, Penicuik, Midlothian, Scotland; [Toledo, Marisol] UAGRM, Fac Ciencias Agricolas, Santa Cruz, Bolivia; [Uriarte, Maria] Columbia Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Environm Biol, New York, NY USA; [van der Hout, Peter] Van der Hout Forestry Consulting, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Poorter, Lourens] Wageningen Univ & Res, Forest Ecol & Forest Management Grp, POB 47, Wageningen, Netherlands								180							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000418285700006		
J	Addo-Fordjour, Patrick; Rahmad, Zakaria B.; Burnham, Robyn J.								Intercontinental comparison of liana community assemblages in tropical forests of Ghana and Malaysia								JOURNAL OF PLANT ECOLOGY				10	6			883	894		10.1093/jpe/rtw082			DEC 2017	2017	Aims Liana research has increased in the past two decades, yet there is still inadequate comparison of liana communities at a cross-continental scale. We compared liana assemblages in tropical forest ecosystems of Ghana and Malaysia, thereby determining patterns and mechanisms that are common or unique to the regions. Methods Liana diversity, community structure and taxonomic composition were determined in 60 plots of 40 x 40 m(2) in three forest types (primary, disturbed secondary, selectively logged) in each biogeographic area. Two traits, climbing mechanisms and dispersal modes were determined for all species and individuals via direct field observation and with published literature. Data were analyzed at biogeographic (using combined forest data) and forest-type levels. Important Findings Both observed and rarefied-extrapolated species richness of lianas were significantly higher in Ghanaian forests compared to Malaysian forests. In most cases, species diversity indices (Shannon diversity index, Margalef, Fisher's alpha) showed significantly higher liana diversity at Ghanaian forests at biogeographic and forest-type levels. Similarly, Ghanaian forests harbored significantly higher values of liana abundance and basal area than Malaysian forests at both biogeographic and forest-type levels. The taxonomic composition of lianas differed considerably between the two biogeographic areas at all levels, although similarity in composition increased at generic and family levels. Though above-ground biomass of lianas was similar between the two biogeographic regions, variations occurred at forest-type level between the two regions. The two biogeographic areas showed some similarities in assemblages of liana climbing mechanisms. Although more species of lianas were adapted for animal dispersal than other dispersal modes in both countries, the majority of liana individuals in Ghana were wind dispersed whereas the majority of liana individuals in Malaysia were animal dispersed. We speculate that the differences in liana community assemblages between the two biogeographic areas are due to historical and evolutionary processes, as well as climatic variation between the two biogeographic regions.		[Addo-Fordjour, Patrick] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Pulau Pinang Penang 11800, Malaysia; [Addo-Fordjour, Patrick; Rahmad, Zakaria B.] KNUST, Coll Sci, Dept Theoret & Appl Biol, Kumasi, Ghana; [Burnham, Robyn J.] Univ Michigan, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA; [Addo-Fordjour, Patrick] KNUST, Coll Sci, Dept Theoret & Appl Biol, Kumasi, Ghana								10							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000417978400001		
J	Gislason, Henrik; Bastardie, Francois; Dinesen, Grete E.; Egekvist, Josefine; Eigaard, Ole Ritzau								Lost in translation? Multi-metric macrobenthos indicators and bottom trawling								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				82				260	270		10.1016/j.ecolind.2017.07.004			NOV 2017	2017	The member states of the European Union use multi-metric macrobenthos indicators to monitor the ecological status of their marine waters in relation to the Water Framework and Marine Strategy Framework Directives. The indicators translate the general descriptors of ecological quality in the directives into a single value of ecological status by combining indices of species diversity, species sensitivity and density. Studies and inter-calibration exercises have shown that the indicators respond to chemical pollution and organic enrichment, but little is known about their response to bottom trawling. We use linear mixed effects models to analyze how bottom trawling intensity affects the indicators used in the Danish (Danish Quality Index, DKI) and Swedish (Benthic Quality Index, BQI) environmental monitoring programs in the Kattegat, the sea area between Sweden and Denmark. Using year and station as random variables and trawling intensity, habitat type, salinity and depth as fixed variables we find a significant negative relationship between the BQI indicator and bottom trawling, while the DKI is related significantly to salinity, but not to trawling intensity. Among the indicator components, the species diversity and sensitivity indices used in the DKI are not significantly linked to trawling, and trawling only affects the BQI when species sensitivities are derived from rarefied samples. Because the number of species recorded per sample (species density) is limited by the number of individuals per sample (density), we expect species density and density to be positively correlated. This correlation was confirmed by a simulation model and by statistical analysis of the bottom samples in which log species density was highly significantly related to log density (r = 0.75, df = 144, p < 0.001). Without accounting for the effect of density on species density, indicators based on species density will be affected by temporal and spatial variations in density linked e.g. to variable recruitment success. When this variation is accounted for by random year and station effects we find log trawling intensity to explain more of the variation in log density than in the indicators currently used to monitor Good Ecological and Environmental Status in the Kattegat. Disregarding random effects and the relationship between density and species density, the impacts of bottom trawling are likely to be lost in the translation of ecological quality into macrobenthos indicators.		[Gislason, Henrik; Bastardie, Francois; Dinesen, Grete E.; Egekvist, Josefine; Eigaard, Ole Ritzau] Tech Univ Denmark, Natl Inst Aquat Resources, Kemitorvet Bygn 202, DK-2000 Lyngby, Denmark; [Gislason, Henrik] Tech Univ Denmark, Natl Inst Aquat Resources, Kemitorvet Bygn 202, DK-2000 Lyngby, Denmark								19							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000417551700026		
J	Frazao, Joana; de Goede, Ron G. M.; Brussaard, Lijbert; Faber, Jack H.; Groot, Jeroen C. J.; Pulleman, Mirjam M.								Earthworm communities in arable fields and restored field margins, as related to management practices and surrounding landscape diversity								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				248				1	8		10.1016/j.agee.2017.07.014			OCT 1 2017	2017	Agricultural intensification has negative impacts on biodiversity at spatial scales from field to landscape. Earthworms are important for soil functioning, so it is crucial to understand the responses of earthworm communities to agricultural management and land use. We aimed to: 1) investigate whether earthworm communities differed between relatively undisturbed field margins, and highly disturbed arable fields; and 2) quantify how earthworm communities of arable fields and field margins are affected by three environmental filters, i.e. soil properties, management practices, and composition of the surrounding landscape. Earthworms were sampled in 26 arable fields and 15 field margins, across a polder area in The Netherlands. While earthworm density, total biomass and species richness did not differ significantly among arable fields and field margins, rarefied earthworm species richness and community composition did. The three environmental filters affected earthworm communities of arable fields and field margins differently. In arable fields, earthworm communities were explained by amble management only (26%). In contrast, all three filters contributed significantly to the variation in earthworm communities of field margins, where management practices explained a larger part of the variation (18%) than the surrounding landscape (11%) and soil properties (10%). Our results suggest that soil properties and surrounding landscape can affect earthworm communities of field margins. However, in the arable fields, where more diverse lumbricid communities are desirable to improve soil functions, such influences are negated by the impact of management at field scale. We demonstrated that field margins enhance earthworm biodiversity in arable landscapes, but surrounding landscape and field margins had limited impact on earthworm communities in arable fields. Decision-making and research should focus on less intensive management options for arable fields to stimulate earthworms and earthworm-mediated soil functions.		[Frazao, Joana; de Goede, Ron G. M.; Brussaard, Lijbert; Pulleman, Mirjam M.] Wageningen Univ, Dept Soil Qual, POB 47, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Faber, Jack H.] Wageningen Environm Res Alterra, POB 47, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Groot, Jeroen C. J.] Wageningen Univ, Farming Syst Ecol Grp, POB 430, NL-6700 AK Wageningen, Netherlands; [Pulleman, Mirjam M.] Int Ctr Trop Agr CIAT, Km 17 Recta Cali Palmira,Apartado Aereo 6713, Cali 763537, Colombia; [Frazao, Joana] Wageningen Univ, Dept Soil Qual, POB 47, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands								25							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000411539700001		
J	Hammond, H. E. James; Langor, David W.; Spence, John R.								Changes in saproxylic beetle (Insecta: Coleoptera) assemblages following wildfire and harvest in boreal <i>Populus</i> forests								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				401				319	329		10.1016/j.foreco.2017.07.013			OCT 1 2017	2017	Stand dynamics in the boreal forest are driven by wildfire, and many think that emulating forest fire patterns during harvesting will adequately preserve biodiversity. We tested this hypothesis by examining saproxylic beetle assemblages from a chronosequence of aspen forest stands originating after wildfire or harvest across several age classes (1-2, 14-15, 28-29 years old) as well as from mature (60-80 years old) and overmature (>120 years old) stands of pyrogenic origin. Using window-traps attached to standing dead snags we collected over 6300 saproxylic beetles representing 310 species. Saproxylic beetle assemblages collected immediately post-fire and post-harvest differed significantly; however, by 30 years post-disturbance beetle assemblages had begun to converge with some general similarities evident among stands that were 28-29 years old. Beetle catch and richness was not greatly affected after fire; however, immediately following stand harvest there was a spike in species richness and beetle catch followed by a significant decrease in both metrics in the 29 year old stands. Cluster analysis and non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination indicated that assemblages from stands regenerating 1-2 years after fire and harvest were dissimilar from those of the other stand ages, and that samples from the burned stands tended to be more variable in composition than those from the harvested stands until our last sample 29 years post-disturbance. Saproxylic beetle assemblages were dominated by mycophagous and predatory species, with different species represented in stands regenerating after fire and harvest. Although the saproxylic beetle fauna of the western Canadian boreal forest seems reasonably resilient to disturbance in the present landscape context, retention of large-diameter coarse woody material in a variety of decay classes and selective burning of some residual woody material should facilitate recolonization by saproxylic species by retaining important microhabitat features that are rarefied by harvest. Crown Copyright (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Hammond, H. E. James; Langor, David W.] Nat Resources Canada Canadian Forest Serv, Northern Forestry Ctr, 5320-122 St, Edmonton, AB T6H 3S5, Canada; [Spence, John R.] Univ Alberta, Dept Renewable Resources, 751 Gen Serv Bldg, Edmonton, AB T6G 2H1, Canada; [Hammond, H. E. James] Nat Resources Canada Canadian Forest Serv, Northern Forestry Ctr, 5320-122 St, Edmonton, AB T6H 3S5, Canada								15							Forestry	WOS:000408073300032		
J	Cesar, Ricardo Gomes; Rother, Debora Cristina; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.								Early Response of Tree Seed Arrival After Liana Cutting in a Disturbed Tropical Forest								TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE				10						1940082917723586	10.1177/1940082917723586			AUG 21 2017	2017	Most remaining tropical forests are under some level of chronic human disturbance, which may favor the proliferation of disturbance-adapted native plants, like some species of tropical lianas. These plants may alter forest structure and composition, but little is known about their effect on ecological processes, such as seed rain. We analyzed the early effects of overabundant lianas on the seed rain of animal-dispersed tree species for 1 year. We analyzed the effect of overabundant lianas on seed rain by cutting all lianas in experimental plots of 314.1 m(2), establishing 12 paired plots with and without liana cutting in a disturbed Atlantic Forest remnant in Southeastern Brazil. Rarefied tree seed species richness was higher in plots dominated by lianas (10.9 +/- 0.2 and 8.3 +/- 1.2 for 500 seeds sampled in liana-dominated and liana-cut plots, respectively), but seed abundance was lower (209 +/- 138 and 984 +/- 421 seeds m(-2) in liana-dominated and liana-cut plots, respectively). Pioneer seed abundance (316.0 +/- 116.3 seeds m(-2)) and species density (3.2 +/- 0.3 species trap(-1)) did not differ among treatments. Lianas may eventually increase local seed rain diversity, while suppressing local tree seed rain abundance. Understanding the impact of the dominance of ruderal species in ecological processes that maintain tropical forests communities, such as seed rain, is crucial to guide the directions for conservation and management of degraded remnants.		[Cesar, Ricardo Gomes; Brancalion, Pedro H. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Padua Dias Av 11, BR-13400 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Rother, Debora Cristina] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Biol Sci Dept, Piracicaba, Brazil; [Cesar, Ricardo Gomes] Univ Sao Paulo, Luiz de Queiroz Coll Agr, Dept Forest Sci, Padua Dias Av 11, BR-13400 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil								11							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000409874200001		
J	Mckee, Anna M.; Maerz, John C.; Smith, Lora L.; Glenn, Travis C.								Habitat predictors of genetic diversity for two sympatric wetland-breeding amphibian species								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				7	16			6271	6283		10.1002/ece3.3203			AUG 2017	2017	Population genetic diversity is widely accepted as important to the conservation and management of wildlife. However, habitat features may differentially affect evolutionary processes that facilitate population genetic diversity among sympatric species. We measured genetic diversity for two pond-breeding amphibian species (Dwarf salamanders, Eurycea quadridigitata; and Southern Leopard frogs, Lithobates sphenocephalus) to understand how habitat characteristics and spatial scale affect genetic diversity across a landscape. Samples were collected from wetlands on a longleaf pine reserve in Georgia. We genotyped microsatellite loci for both species to assess population structures and determine which habitat features were most closely associated with observed heterozygosity and rarefied allelic richness. Both species exhibited significant population genetic structure; however, structure in Southern Leopard frogs was driven primarily by one outlier site. Dwarf salamander allelic richness was greater at sites with less surrounding road area within 0.5 km and more wetland area within 1.0 and 2.5 km, and heterozygosity was greater at sites with more wetland area within 0.5 km. In contrast, neither measure of Southern Leopard frog genetic diversity was associated with any habitat features at any scale we evaluated. Genetic diversity in the Dwarf salamander was strongly associated with land cover variables up to 2.5 km away from breeding wetlands, and/or results suggest that minimizing roads in wetland buffers may be beneficial to the maintenance of population genetic diversity. This study suggests that patterns of genetic differentiation and genetic diversity have associations with different habitat features across different spatial scales for two syntopic pond-breeding amphibian species.		[Mckee, Anna M.; Maerz, John C.] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Smith, Lora L.] Joseph W Jones Ecol Res Ctr, Newton, GA USA; [Glenn, Travis C.] Univ Georgia, Dept Environm Hlth Sci, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Mckee, Anna M.] US Geol Survey, South Atlant Water Sci Ctr, Norcross, GA USA; [Mckee, Anna M.] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA								6							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000409528000019		
J	Wagner, Robert; Zona, Donatella; Oechel, Walter; Lipson, David								Microbial community structure and soil pH correspond to methane production in Arctic Alaska soils								ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY				19	8			3398	3410		10.1111/1462-2920.13854			AUG 2017	2017	While there is no doubt that biogenic methane production in the Arctic is an important aspect of global methane emissions, the relative roles of microbial community characteristics and soil environmental conditions in controlling Arctic methane emissions remains uncertain. Here, relevant methane-cycling microbial groups were investigated at two remote Arctic sites with respect to soil potential methane production (PMP). Percent abundances of methanogens and iron-reducing bacteria correlated with increased PMP, while methanotrophs correlated with decreased PMP. Interestingly, -diversity of the methanogens was positively correlated with PMP, while -diversity was unrelated to PMP. The -diversity of the entire microbial community, however, was related to PMP. Shannon diversity was a better correlate of PMP than Simpson diversity across analyses, while rarefied species richness was a weak correlate of PMP. These results demonstrate the following: first, soil pH and microbial community structure both probably control methane production in Arctic soils. Second, there may be high functional redundancy in the methanogens with regard to methane production. Third, iron-reducing bacteria co-occur with methanogens in Arctic soils, and iron-reduction-mediated effects on methanogenesis may be controlled by - and -diversity. And finally, species evenness and rare species abundances may be driving relationships between microbial groups, influencing Arctic methane production.		[Wagner, Robert; Zona, Donatella; Oechel, Walter; Lipson, David] San Diego State Univ, Biol, San Diego, CA 92182 USA; [Wagner, Robert] San Diego State Univ, Biol, San Diego, CA 92182 USA								29							Microbiology	WOS:000407790700036		
J	Dominik, Christophe; Seppelt, Ralf; Horgan, Finbarr G.; Marquez, Leonardo; Settele, Josef; Vaclavik, Tomas								Regional-scale effects override the influence of fine-scale landscape heterogeneity on rice arthropod communities								AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT				246				269	278		10.1016/j.agee.2017.06.011			AUG 1 2017	2017	Irrigated rice croplands are among the most biologically diverse agroecosystems globally; however, intensification and simplification of farmed areas into homogeneous monocultures can lead to biodiversity loss and a reduction of associated ecosystem services such as natural pest regulation. Understanding how landscape heterogeneity affects the diversity of arthropod communities is therefore crucial for the sustainable management of rice agroecosystems. Here, we examine the influence of fine-scale landscape heterogeneity and regional-scale effects on the arthropod communities of three rice-production regions in the Philippines. Our analysis of 213 arthropod morphospecies (37,339 individuals) collected using two sampling methods at 28 field sites indicated that the rice agroecosystems in each study region had unique arthropod assemblages, likely reflecting region specific environmental and land-use conditions. For all sites together, we found no effect of fine-scale landscape context (classified as rather high or low heterogeneity sites) on assemblage structure (arthropod abundance, species richness or diversity). When assemblages were analyzed separately, significant effects of fine-scale landscape context were only detected in one region and for two functional groups (predators and detritivores). Elevation gradient, used as a proxy for regional-scale effects in the study regions, explained more than 60% of variance in assemblage structure. Total arthropod abundance and rarefied species richness were negatively related to elevation, suggesting that regional-scale effects rather than fine-scale landscape heterogeneity explained the composition of rice-arthropod communities in landscapes. To further disentangle the complex effects of broad-scale environmental drivers versus fine-scale landscape complexity on arthropod communities and biocontrol services, future research in rice agroecosystems should focus on a more detailed quantification of landscape heterogeneity and examine its effect at multiple spatial scales.		[Dominik, Christophe; Seppelt, Ralf; Vaclavik, Tomas] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Computat Landscape Ecol, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany; [Seppelt, Ralf; Settele, Josef] iDiv German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res, D-04103 Halle, Germany; [Seppelt, Ralf] Martin Luther Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Geosci & Geog, D-06099 Halle, Saale, Germany; [Horgan, Finbarr G.] Int Rice Res Inst, DAPO Box 7777, Manila, Philippines; [Horgan, Finbarr G.] Univ Technol Sydney, Ctr Compassionate Conservat, 15 Broadway, Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia; [Marquez, Leonardo] Philippine Rice Res Inst, Crop Protect Div, Munoz, Nueva Ecija, Philippines; [Settele, Josef] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Community Ecol, D-06120 Halle, Germany; [Settele, Josef] Univ Philippines Los Banos, Inst Biol Sci, College Los Banos 4031, Laguna, Philippines; [Vaclavik, Tomas] Palacky Univ, Dept Ecol & Environm Sci, Fac Sci, Olomouc 78371, Czech Republic; [Dominik, Christophe] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Computat Landscape Ecol, D-04318 Leipzig, Germany								23							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000405973000029		
J	Rabelo, Rafael M.; Bicca-Marques, Julio Cesar; Aragon, Susan; Nelson, Bruce Walker								Are fluvial islands "real" islands for arboreal mammals? Uncovering the effect of patch size under the species-area relationship								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				44	8			1802	1812		10.1111/jbi.13034			AUG 2017	2017	Aim: We tested the habitat amount hypothesis, which predicts that the effect of patch size on number of species results from a sample area effect rather than an island effect. Specifically, we (1) compared parameters of the species-area relationship (SAR) of arboreal mammals in forested fluvial islands and continuous forest, and (2) separated the effects of island size and of landscape-scale habitat amount on species richness. Location: Middle-Solimoes River region, Central Amazon. Methods: We surveyed arboreal mammals along line-transects on 15 fluvial floodplain islands and nine transects in continuous floodplain forest. Transect length varied according to island size. Transects of similar length were established in continuous forest. We used power transformed (log-log) models to construct a SAR for the set of island transects and another SAR for the set of continuous forest transects. We compared slope and intercept between the two SARs using ANCOVA. We used multiple regressions to separate the effects of island size and of habitat amount on the rarefied number of species across multiple spatial scales (500-6,000m). Results: The two species-area curves showed similar slopes, but the intercept was lower for islands. Multiple regressions showed the best fit at the 5,500m spatial scale. At this scale, habitat amount predicted species richness, whereas island size did not. Main conclusions: We conclude that the apparent effect of patch size on the number of species may be simply due to the sample area effect and that no island effect operates on this patchy system. Accordingly, island size per se does not increase the number of species at a sample site. Fluvial islands should not be treated as real islands from the island biogeography perspective. In sum, we found support for the habitat amount hypothesis for predicting the richness of arboreal mammals on fluvial islands.		[Rabelo, Rafael M.; Nelson, Bruce Walker] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Rabelo, Rafael M.] Inst Desenvolvimento Sustentavel Mamiraua, Coordenacao Pesquisa, Tefe, Amazonas, Brazil; [Bicca-Marques, Julio Cesar] Pontificia Univ Catolica Rio Grande do Sul, Fac Biociencias, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Aragon, Susan] Univ Fed Oeste Para, Programa Posgrad Recursos Nat Amazonia, Santarem, Para, Brazil; [Rabelo, Rafael M.] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								21							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000406117000012		
J	Griffin, Sean R.; Bruninga-Socolar, Bethanne; Kerr, Morgan A.; Gibbs, Jason; Winfree, Rachael								Wild bee community change over a 26-year chronosequence of restored tallgrass prairie								RESTORATION ECOLOGY				25	4			650	660		10.1111/rec.12481			JUL 2017	2017	Restoration efforts often focus on plants, but additionally require the establishment and long-term persistence of diverse groups of nontarget organisms, such as bees, for important ecosystem functions and meeting restoration goals. We investigated long-term patterns in the response of bees to habitat restoration by sampling bee communities along a 26-year chronosequence of restored tallgrass prairie in north-central Illinois, U.S.A. Specifically, we examined how bee communities changed over time since restoration in terms of (1) abundance and richness, (2) community composition, and (3) the two components of beta diversity, one-to-one species replacement, and changes in species richness. Bee abundance and raw richness increased with restoration age from the low level of the pre-restoration (agricultural) sites to the target level of the remnant prairie within the first 2-3 years after restoration, and these high levels were maintained throughout the entire restoration chronosequence. Bee community composition of the youngest restored sites differed from that of prairie remnants, but 5-7 years post-restoration the community composition of restored prairie converged with that of remnants. Landscape context, particularly nearby wooded land, was found to affect abundance, rarefied richness, and community composition. Partitioning overall beta diversity between sites into species replacement and richness effects revealed that the main driver of community change over time was the gradual accumulation of species, rather than one-to-one species replacement. At the spatial and temporal scales we studied, we conclude that prairie restoration efforts targeting plants also successfully restore bee communities.		[Griffin, Sean R.; Bruninga-Socolar, Bethanne] Rutgers State Univ, Grad Program Ecol & Evolut, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Griffin, Sean R.; Bruninga-Socolar, Bethanne; Winfree, Rachael] Rutgers State Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Nat Resources, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA; [Kerr, Morgan A.] Rowan Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Glassboro, NJ 08028 USA; [Gibbs, Jason] Michigan State Univ, Dept Entomol, E Lansing, MI 48824 USA; [Griffin, Sean R.] Rutgers State Univ, Grad Program Ecol & Evolut, New Brunswick, NJ 08901 USA								44							Ecology	WOS:000406129000019		
J	Soares, Antonio Onofre; Honek, Alois; Martinkova, Zdenka; Skuhrovec, Jiri; Cardoso, Pedro; Borges, Isabel								<i>Harmonia axyridis</i> failed to establish in the Azores: the role of species richness, intraguild interactions and resource availability								BIOCONTROL				62	3			423	434		10.1007/s10526-017-9794-z			JUN 2017	2017	To understand the role of native ladybird biodiversity in habitat susceptibility on the establishment and spread of Harmonia axyridis Pallas (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), we characterized and compared European communities where they had established and where they had not established. The local communities of ladybirds were characterized in terms of biodiversity, the average difference in body mass between H. axyridis and other coccinellid species and the rarefied total body mass of all individuals (as a surrogate for aphid abundance and availability). The lack of success of H. axyridis in the Azores, as well as its low success in Southern Europe, can be explained by a combination of resource availability and intraguild competition. We suggest the success of this invasive alien species to establish in a habitat depends first on resource availability and second when most direct competitors for limited resources are absent or are uncommon.		[Soares, Antonio Onofre; Cardoso, Pedro; Borges, Isabel] Univ Azores, CE3c ABG Ctr Ecol Evolut Environm Changes, P-9501801 Ponta Delgada, Portugal; [Soares, Antonio Onofre; Cardoso, Pedro; Borges, Isabel] Univ Azores, Dept Biol, Azorean Biodivers Grp, P-9501801 Ponta Delgada, Portugal; [Honek, Alois; Martinkova, Zdenka; Skuhrovec, Jiri] Crop Res Inst, Drnovska 507, Prague 6, Czech Republic; [Cardoso, Pedro] Univ Helsinki, Finnish Museum Nat Hist, Pohjoinen Rautatiekatu 13,POB 17, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; [Soares, Antonio Onofre] Univ Azores, CE3c ABG Ctr Ecol Evolut Environm Changes, P-9501801 Ponta Delgada, Portugal; [Soares, Antonio Onofre] Univ Azores, Dept Biol, Azorean Biodivers Grp, P-9501801 Ponta Delgada, Portugal								24							Entomology	WOS:000400990600012		
J	Rovero, Francesco; Owen, Nisha; Jones, Trevor; Canteri, Elisabetta; Iemma, Aaron; Tattoni, Clara								Camera trapping surveys of forest mammal communities in the Eastern Arc Mountains reveal generalized habitat and human disturbance responses								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				26	5			1103	1119		10.1007/s10531-016-1288-2			MAY 2017	2017	Large-bodied mammals are a rich and diversified faunal group in tropical rainforests. However, knowledge on community size and composition, and on species' distribution and ecology remains often scant and inadequate against their chronic status of threats. We used camera trapping to detect mammals in the forests of the Eastern Arc Mountains (EAM) of Tanzania, a world renowned region for biodiversity comprised by a series of distinct and ancient mountain ranges partially covered in moist montane forest. We conducted surveys from 2003 to 2011 in eight of the 12 mountain blocks in Tanzania, and, through an overall sampling effort of 11,500 camera days, we detected 43 species. We normalized species richness and species' detection events by effort, and used these metrics to assess the effect of habitat and human disturbance variables. We found that rarefied richness is positively affected by forest area at the block level, and that richness at forest patch level is also affected by forest area as well as surrounding human density (negative effect). For a subset of 17 species, we found consistent patterns of avoidance or tolerance of human disturbance and forest edges, and increased occurrence in areas at higher elevation, matching the historical forest loss that in most mountains occurred at lower elevation. Our study provides ecological insights that are novel for most species and sites, and reveals a general trend of negative impact of human disturbance on both community size and species' relative abundance. Increased protection of the EAM forests in Tanzania is of urgent importance for the persistence of diversified mammal communities.		[Rovero, Francesco; Canteri, Elisabetta; Iemma, Aaron; Tattoni, Clara] MUSE Museo Sci, Trop Biodivers Sect, Corso Lavoro & Sci 3, I-38122 Trento, Italy; [Owen, Nisha] Zool Soc London, Regents Pk, London NW1 4RY, England; [Owen, Nisha] Soc Environm Explorat, 50-52 Rivington St, London EC2A 3QP, England; [Jones, Trevor] Southern Tanzania Elephant Program, POB 2494, Iringa, Tanzania; [Rovero, Francesco] MUSE Museo Sci, Trop Biodivers Sect, Corso Lavoro & Sci 3, I-38122 Trento, Italy								22							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000399235300006		
J	Levi, Peter S.; Starnawski, Piotr; Poulsen, Britta; Baattrup-Pedersen, Annette; Schramm, Andreas; Riis, Tenna								Microbial community diversity and composition varies with habitat characteristics and biofilm function in macrophyte-rich streams								OIKOS				126	3			398	409		10.1111/oik.03400			MAR 2017	2017	Biofilms in streams play an integral role in ecosystem processes and function yet few studies have investigated the broad diversity of these complex prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial communities. Physical habitat characteristics can affect the composition and abundance of microorganisms in these biofilms by creating microhabitats. Here we describe the prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial diversity of biofilms in sand and macrophyte habitats (i.e. epipsammon and epiphyton, respectively) in five macrophyte-rich streams in Jutland, Denmark. The macrophyte species varied in growth morphology, C:N stoichiometry, and preferred stream habitat, providing a range in environmental conditions for the epiphyton. Among all habitats and streams, the prokaryotic communities were dominated by common phyla, including Alphaproteobacteria, Bacteriodetes, and Gammaproteobacteria, while the eukaryotic communities were dominated by Stramenopiles (i.e. diatoms). For both the prokaryotes and eukaryotes, the epipsammon were consistently the most diverse communities and the epiphytic communities were generally similar among the four macrophyte species. However, the communities on the least complex macrophyte, Sparganium emersum, had the lowest richness and evenness and fewest unique OTUs, whereas the macrophyte with the most morphological complexity, Callitriche spp., had the highest number of unique OTUs. In general, the microbial taxa were ubiquitously distributed across the relatively homogeneous Danish landscape as determined by measuring the similarity among communities (i.e. SOrensen similarity index). Furthermore, we found significant correlations between microbial diversity (i.e. Chao1 rarefied richness and Pielou's evenness) and biofilm structure and function (i.e. C:N ratio and ammonium uptake efficiency, respectively); communities with higher richness and evenness had higher C:N ratios and lower uptake efficiency. In addition to describing the prokaryotic and eukaryotic community composition in stream biofilms, our study indicates that 1) physical habitat characteristics influence microbial diversity and 2) the variation in microbial diversity may dictate the structural and functional characteristics of stream biofilm communities.		[Levi, Peter S.; Baattrup-Pedersen, Annette; Riis, Tenna] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Aquat Biol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Drake Univ, Environm Sci & Policy, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA; [Starnawski, Piotr; Poulsen, Britta; Schramm, Andreas] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Microbiol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Aarhus Univ, Dept Biosci, Aquat Biol, Aarhus, Denmark; [Levi, Peter S.] Drake Univ, Environm Sci & Policy, Des Moines, IA 50311 USA								26							Ecology	WOS:000395037400010		
J	Martins, Renato T.; Couceiro, Sheyla R. M.; Melo, Adriano S.; Moreira, Marcelo P.; Hamada, Neusa								Effects of urbanization on stream benthic invertebrate communities in Central Amazon								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				73				480	491		10.1016/j.ecolind.2016.10.013			FEB 2017	2017	Urbanization and its physical and chemical effects on aquatic environments influence invertebrate communities negatively. Yet, it is not clear how urbanization affects inter-annual variation of invertebrate assemblages in streams. We 1) evaluated urbanization effects on the ecological conditions (biotic and abiotic) of streams in Manaus and 2) analyzed invertebrate community variation over time (between 2003 and 2010). Data on abiotic variables and invertebrates from 2003 were obtained from a previous study. In 2010 we sampled abiotic variables and invertebrate communities in the same low-order urban streams sampled in 2003 (n = 40). We recorded high values of total nitrogen, total phosphorous, deforestation, total impervious area (TIA), water temperature, pH, and electrical conductivity in the most urbanized streams, as compared to the least-impacted ones. In contrast, the least-impacted streams had high dissolved oxygen concentrations. Water quality was poorer in 2010 than in 2003: oxygen concentration was lower and total nitrogen, total phosphorous, deforestation, and TIA significantly higher in 2010. We recorded higher inter-annual variation of abiotic variables in the most-impacted streams as compared to the least-impacted streams. EPT (%, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera) and richness metrics decreased with urbanization. On the other hand, % OP (percent of Oligochaeta and Psychodidae) increased with urbanization. Observed and EPT richness and% OP increased between 2003 and 2010. On the other hand, rarefied richness decreased between years. Increases of observed and EPT richness between 2003 and 2010 were related to low inter-annual variability in streams conditions; however, differences of% OP and rarefied richness were not related to inter-annual variability in environmental conditions. The degree of urbanization did not explain the magnitude of the within-stream difference of invertebrate communities between 2003 and 2010. The increased effects of urbanization represented by the abiotic variables sampled and the reduction of invertebrate richness and increased dominance of tolerant taxa indicate that public policy is not enough to protect or mitigate human impacts on the urban water systems under study. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Martins, Renato T.; Hamada, Neusa] INPA, Coordenacao Biodiversidade, Programa Posgrad Entomol, Av Andre Araujo 2936,CP 478, BR-69067375 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Couceiro, Sheyla R. M.] Univ Fed Oeste Para, Inst Ciencias & Tecnol Aguas, Rua Vera Paz S-N, BR-68035110 Santarem, PA, Brazil; [Melo, Adriano S.] Univ Fed Goias, ICB, Dept Ecol, CP 131, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Moreira, Marcelo P.] Fundacao Vitoria Amazonica, Programa Geopolit Conservacao, Rua Estrela DAlva 146, BR-69060093 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Martins, Renato T.] INPA, Coordenacao Biodiversidade, Programa Posgrad Entomol, Av Andre Araujo 2936,CP 478, BR-69067375 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								47							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000398334400049		
J	Sharpe, D. M. T.; De Leon, L. F.; Gonzalez, R.; Torchin, M. E.								Tropical fish community does not recover 45 years after predator introduction								ECOLOGY				98	2			412	424		10.1002/ecy.1648			FEB 2017	2017	Predation is considered to be an important factor structuring natural communities. However, it is often difficult to determine how it may influence long-term, broad-scale, diversity patterns, particularly in diverse tropical systems. Biological introductions can provide powerful insight to test the sustained consequences of predation in natural communities, if pre-introduction data are available. Half a century ago, Zaret and Paine demonstrated strong and immediate community-level effects following the introduction of a novel apex predator (peacock bass, Cichla monoculus) into Lake Gatun, Panama. To test for long-term changes associated with this predator introduction, we followed up on their classic study by replicating historical sampling methods and examining changes in the littoral fish community at two sites in Lake Gatun 45 years post-introduction. To broaden our inference, we complemented this temporal comparison with a spatial analysis, wherein we compared the fish communities from two lakes with and one lake without peacock bass. Comparisons with historical data revealed that the peacock bass remains the most abundant predator in Lake Gatun. Furthermore, the collapse of the littoral prey community observed immediately following the invasion has been sustained over the past 45 years. The mean abundance of native littoral fish is now 96% lower than it was prior to the introduction. Diversity (rarefied species richness) declined by 64% post-introduction, and some native species appear to have been locally extirpated. We observed a similar pattern across invaded and uninvaded lakes: the mean abundance of native fishes was 5-40 times lower in lakes with (Gatun, Alajuela) relative to the lake without peacock bass (Bayano). In particular, small-bodied native fishes (Characidae, Peociliidae), which are common prey of the peacock bass, were more than two orders of magnitude (307 times) less abundant in Gatun and one order of magnitude (28 times) less abundant in Alajuela than in Bayano. However, total native fish diversity did not differ significantly across lakes, suggesting that while many native species have declined in abundance, few have been completely extirpated. Introduced predators can have strong effects on community structure and functional diversity, even in highly diverse tropical communities, and these effects can persist over multiple decades.		[Sharpe, D. M. T.; Gonzalez, R.; Torchin, M. E.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Ancon, Panama; [Sharpe, D. M. T.] McGill Univ, Redpath Museum, Montreal, PQ H3A 2K6, Canada; [De Leon, L. F.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Biol, Boston, MA 02125 USA; [De Leon, L. F.] Inst Invest Cient & Serv Alta Tecnol INDICASAT AI, Ctr Biodiversidad & Descubrimiento Drogas, Panama City, Panama; [Sharpe, D. M. T.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Ancon, Panama; [Sharpe, D. M. T.] McGill Univ, Redpath Museum, Montreal, PQ H3A 2K6, Canada								46							Ecology	WOS:000393375700013		
J	Yeung, Alex C. Y.; Lecerf, Antoine; Richardson, John S.								Assessing the long-term ecological effects of riparian management practices on headwater streams in a coastal temperate rainforest								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				384				100	109		10.1016/j.foreco.2016.10.044			JAN 15 2017	2017	Our understanding of how effective forestry Best Management Practices (BMPs) can mitigate logging impacts on the structure and functioning of temperate headwater streams tends to be based upon studies conducted within the first few years post-harvest. Little is known about how the affected biological parameters of streams change during riparian and upland forest regeneration, particularly the time taken to return to pre-harvest levels, or to within the range of reference conditions. By following up on an earlier study in southwestern British Columbia, Canada, we examined the post-logging recovery trajectories of stream attributes under multiple forest treatments. These treatments provided a gradient of riparian protection, including streamside clear-cutting with no reserves, and with fixed-width reserves (10 m and 30 m), and thinning with 50% basal area removal of riparian trees, which were compared with unharvested control sites. About 15 years after clear-cutting and 9 years after thinning, slower decomposition of red alder leaves (Alnus rubra) was reported in streams affected by forest harvesting, which was attributed to lower density of shredder invertebrates. Thinned reaches had lower litter decomposition rate than, but similar shredder density and richness to, unharvested reference sites. After a further 7 years of forest regrowth (time elapsed between the previous and present study), we found that litter decomposition rate and shredder density in logging-affected reaches converged with values in reference reaches. Stream functional integrity, as reflected by litter decomposition, increased across all forest treatments. Some differences in rarefied shredder richness among forest treatments emerged in this study. The legacy effects of thinning on some biotic variables likely diminished more quickly (2-9 years post-harvest) than those of clear-cutting with and without riparian reserves (8-15 years). Stream recovery from thinning to reference conditions should continue to warrant attention, as wider, larger-scale partial harvesting practices are recommended within emerging paradigms of forest management. Overall, our findings indicate time scales towards recovery of an important ecological process of streams under common forestry practices, which could be longer than other stream properties, such as water quality. Such differences in recovery time frames should be considered for the planning of forestry operations and monitoring of harvesting legacies. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Yeung, Alex C. Y.; Richardson, John S.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest & Conservat Sci, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada; [Lecerf, Antoine] Univ Toulouse, CNRS, INPT, UPS,EcoLab, 118 Route Narbonne, F-31062 Toulouse, France; [Yeung, Alex C. Y.] Univ British Columbia, Dept Forest & Conservat Sci, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada								23							Forestry	WOS:000390727600012		
J	Cernecka, Ludmila; Mihal, Ivan; Jarcuska, Benjamin								Response of ground-dwelling harvestman assemblages (Arachnida: Opiliones) to European beech forest canopy cover								EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF ENTOMOLOGY				114				334	342		10.14411/eje.2017.042			2017	2017	We studied the effects of the overstory canopy cover on ground-dwelling harvestmen communities in European beech forests in the Western Carpathian Mts. We analyzed the differences in species richness, abundance and composition in two tree canopy cover categories (closed and open canopy). Overall, 1765 individuals belonging to 16 species were caught using pitfall traps. Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed that under both closed and open canopies a similar absolute and rarefied species richness and number of individuals (standardized to 100 pitfall trap days) were caught, and that both species richness and abundance were affected by the season (i.e., time of trap replacement); yet the total number of individuals trapped was more than two times greater under the open canopy than under the closed canopy. Despite the subtle differences in the taxonomic composition of the catches under the open and closed canopies revealed by DCA followed by RDA, the composition of ground-dwelling harvestmen assemblages differed under the two canopy covers. The open canopy was more suitable for heliophilic, xerothermic eurytopic harvestmen species typical for open and ecotonal habitats, such as Egaenus convexus (C.L.Koch) and Oligolophus tridens (C.L. Koch) but still suitable for hemihygrophilic Lophopilio palpinalis (Herbst). The closed canopy stands were preferred by shade-tolerant, hygrophilic eurytopic harvestmen species, such as Trogulus sp. Latreille, Dicranolasma scabrum (Herbst) and Platybunus bucephalus (C.L. Koch). Our results highlight the importance of intra-habitat heterogeneity of a harvestmen community.		[Cernecka, Ludmila; Mihal, Ivan; Jarcuska, Benjamin] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Forest Ecol, L Stura 2, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia; [Jarcuska, Benjamin] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Forest Ecol, L Stura 2, Zvolen 96053, Slovakia								7							Entomology	WOS:000419219900022		
J	Uwimbabazi, Moreen; Eycott, Amy E.; Babweteera, Fred; Sande, Eric; Telford, Richard J.; Vandvik, Vigdis								Avian guild assemblages in forest fragments around Budongo Forest Reserve, western Uganda								OSTRICH				88	3			267	276		10.2989/00306525.2017.1318186			2017	2017	Remnant forest fragments provide an opportunity for conservation in fragmented landscapes but some patches are more useful than others. Forest fragments around Budongo Forest Reserve, an Important Bird Area in western Uganda, were surveyed to explore the effects of different aspects of habitat fragmentation on bird guild composition. We recorded 1 128 individuals of 75 bird species over 7 056 net hours. The greatest number of birds and species were recorded in the forest fragments that were large, near to the continuous forest and surrounded by subsistence farmland. However, rarefied species richness was not affected by distance, size or matrix type; instead, forest specialist species were replaced by generalists and visitors with increasing fragmentation. The proportion of forest specialists and of terrestrial insectivores decreased with distance from the main forest, canopy openness and matrix intensity but not with fragment area. The findings show that bird assemblages vary in their response to habitat fragmentation but within guilds the response to fragmentation can be consistent, and can make ecological sense. Forest bird conservation can therefore benefit from information on species ecology when deciding which bird species and which parts of the landscape are to be prioritised for conservation or monitoring purposes.		[Uwimbabazi, Moreen] Makerere Univ, Coll Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Forest Biol & Ecosyst Management, Kamapala, Uganda; [Eycott, Amy E.; Telford, Richard J.; Vandvik, Vigdis] Univ Bergen, Inst Biol, Bergen, Norway; [Babweteera, Fred] Royal Zool Soc Scotland, Edinburgh, Midlothian, Scotland; [Babweteera, Fred] Budongo Conservat Field Stn, Masindi, Uganda; [Sande, Eric] Makerere Univ, Coll Nat Sci, Dept Biol Sci, Kampala, Uganda; [Uwimbabazi, Moreen] Makerere Univ, Coll Agr & Environm Sci, Dept Forest Biol & Ecosyst Management, Kamapala, Uganda								4							Ornithology	WOS:000416580600010		
J	Koperski, Pawel								Taxonomic, phylogenetic and functional diversity of leeches (Hirudinea) and their suitability in biological assessment of environmental quality								KNOWLEDGE AND MANAGEMENT OF AQUATIC ECOSYSTEMS					418					49	10.1051/kmae/2017040			2017	2017	Different components of biological diversity of leeches (Hirudinea), sampled in lowland watercourses in Poland were compared between sites differed in terms of environmental quality, measured by officially approved procedures. Indices based on taxonomic diversity, rarefied species richness, taxonomic distinctness, phylogenetic diversity and functional diversity were considered in the analysis, for sites belonging to three biocoenotic types of watercourses. In most cases values of all indices except Pielou's evenness show unimodal relationships with environmental quality and in any case monotonic increase in diversity was not shown. Median values of diversity were significantly higher and its highest values were significantly more frequent at sites with moderate than with low or high environmental quality. This pattern of relationships was observed both for indices based on presence/absence data and those based on relative abundance of species. The significance of this mode of relationships differed between biocoenotic types and between procedures using to measure environmental quality. The results obtained show low and doubtful usefulness of each component of leech diversity as an element of biological assessment in lowland watercourses.		[Koperski, Pawel] Univ Warsaw, Ctr Biol & Chem Res, Fac Biol, Dept Hydrobiol, Zwirki & Wigury101, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland; [Koperski, Pawel] Univ Warsaw, Ctr Biol & Chem Res, Fac Biol, Dept Hydrobiol, Zwirki & Wigury101, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland								8							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000413535700001		
J	Paice, Robyn L.; Chambers, Jane M.; Robson, Belinda J.								Native submerged macrophyte distribution in seasonally-flowing, south-western Australian streams in relation to stream condition								AQUATIC SCIENCES				79	1			171	185		10.1007/s00027-016-0488-x			JAN 2017	2017	Submerged macrophytes are important structural and biological components of many lowland streams with potential to support ecosystem processes in degraded streams, provided that growth is not excessive. In a low-gradient agricultural landscape, a survey was used to explore associations between submerged macrophyte growth, biodiversity and variables assessing stream condition in seasonally-flowing streams. These variables were sampled across fifty-three reaches on seven adjacent streams in the mediterranean climate region of south-western Australia. Native submerged macrophytes were present in 43 % of sampled reaches, forming two distinct macrophyte assemblages dominated either by Potamogeton spp. together with Ottelia ovalifolia, or by Cycnogeton spp. The Potamogeton/Ottelia assemblage was present in degraded reaches with higher light availability and deposition of fine sediments, but did not show excessive growth, even under nutrient-enriched conditions. Conversely, Cycnogeton spp. were associated with shaded conditions and greater flow. Reaches with macrophytes present had significantly higher macroinvertebrate abundance and family richness than those without, although rarefied family richness was similar among reaches with and without submerged macrophytes. The more structurally complex Potamogeton/Ottelia assemblage supported a greater abundance of grazers, shredders and predators than the simpler Cycnogeton spp. In degraded agricultural streams, remnant and colonising populations of submerged macrophytes may compensate for loss of riparian-derived habitat and resources for macroinvertebrates, and thus the food supply for predatory species.		[Paice, Robyn L.; Chambers, Jane M.; Robson, Belinda J.] Murdoch Univ, Environm & Conservat Sci, 90 South St, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia; [Paice, Robyn L.] Murdoch Univ, Environm & Conservat Sci, 90 South St, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia								7							Environmental Sciences; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000394107900014		
J	Furbish, David Jon; Fathel, Siobhan L.; Schmeeckle, Mark W.; Jerolmack, Douglas J.; Schumer, Rina								The elements and richness of particle diffusion during sediment transport at small timescales								EARTH SURFACE PROCESSES AND LANDFORMS				42	1			214	237		10.1002/esp.4084			JAN 2017	2017	The ideas of advection and diffusion of sediment particles are probabilistic constructs that emerge when the Master equation, a precise, probabilistic description of particle conservation, is approximated as a Fokker-Planck equation. The diffusive term approximates nonlocal transport. It looks' upstream and downstream for variations in particle activity and velocities, whose effects modify the advective term. High-resolution measurements of bedload particle motions indicate that the mean squared displacement of tracer particles, when treated as a virtual plume, primarily reflects a nonlinear increase in the variance in hop distances with increasing travel time, manifest as apparent anomalous diffusion. In contrast, an ensemble calculation of the mean squared displacement involving paired coordinate positions independent of starting time indicates a transition from correlated random walks to normal (Fickian) diffusion. This normal behavior also is reflected in the particle velocity autocorrelation function. Spatial variations in particle entrainment produce a flux from sites of high entrainment toward sites of low entrainment. In the case of rain splash transport, this leads to topographic roughening, where differential rain splash beneath the canopy of a desert shrub contributes to the growth of a soil mound beneath the shrub. With uniform entrainment, rain splash transport, often described as a diffusive process, actually represents an advective particle flux that is proportional to the land surface slope. Particle diffusion during both bedload and rain splash transport involves motions that mostly are patchy, intermittent and rarefied. The probabilistic framework of the Master equation reveals that continuous formulations of the flux and its divergence (the Exner equation) represent statistically expected behavior, analogous to Reynolds-averaged conditions. Key topics meriting clarification include the mechanical basis of particle diffusion, effects of rarefied conditions involving patchy, intermittent motions, and effects of rest times on diffusion of tracer particles and particle-borne substances. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		[Furbish, David Jon; Fathel, Siobhan L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Earth & Environm Sci, Nashville, TN 37240 USA; [Furbish, David Jon; Fathel, Siobhan L.] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Civil & Environm Engn, Nashville, TN 37235 USA; [Schmeeckle, Mark W.] Arizona State Univ, Sch Geog Sci & Urban Planning, Tempe, AZ 85281 USA; [Jerolmack, Douglas J.] Univ Penn, Dept Earth & Environm Sci, Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA; [Schumer, Rina] Desert Res Inst, Div Hydrol Sci, Reno, NV 89512 USA; [Furbish, David Jon] Vanderbilt Univ, Dept Earth & Environm Sci, Nashville, TN 37240 USA								29							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000393806400013		
J	Geedicke, I.; Schultz, M.; Rudolph, B.; Oldeland, J.								Phylogenetic clustering found in lichen but not in plant communities in European heathlands								COMMUNITY ECOLOGY				17	2			216	224		10.1556/168.2016.17.2.10			DEC 2016	2016	Species richness is a widespread measure to evaluate the effect of different management histories on plant communities and their biodiversity. However, analysing the phylogenetic structure of plant communities could provide new insights into the effects of different management methods on community assemblages and provide further guidance for conservation decisions. Heathlands require permanent management to ensure the existence of such a cultural landscape. While traditional management with grazing is time consuming, mechanical methods are often applied but their consequences on the phylogenetic community assemblages are still unclear. We sampled 60 vegetation plots in dry sandy heathlands (EU habitat type 2310) in northern Germany stratified by five different heathland management histories: fire, plaggen (turf cutting), mowing, deforestation and intensive grazing. Due to the distant relationship of vascular plants and lichens, we assembled two phylogenetic trees, one for vascular plants and one for lichens. We then calculated phylogenetic diversity (PD) and measures of phylogenetic community structure for vascular plant and lichen communities. Deforested areas supported significantly higher PD values for vascular plant communities. We found that PD was strongly correlated with species richness (SR) but the calculation of rarefied PD was uncorrelated to SR leading to a different ranking of management histories. We observed phylogenetic clustering in the lichen communities but not for vascular plants. Thus, management by mowing and intensive grazing promotes habitat filtering of lichens, while management histories that cause greater disturbance such as fire and plaggen do not seem to affect phylogenetic community structure. The set of management strategies fulfilled the goals of the managers in maintaining a healthy heathland community structure. However, management strategies that cause less disturbance can offer an additional range of habitat for other taxonomic groups such as lichen communities.		[Geedicke, I.; Schultz, M.; Rudolph, B.; Oldeland, J.] Univ Hamburg, Bioctr Klein Flottbek & Bot Garden, Biodivers Evolut & Ecol Plants, Ohnhorststr 18, D-22609 Hamburg, Germany; [Geedicke, I.] Univ Hamburg, Bioctr Klein Flottbek & Bot Garden, Biodivers Evolut & Ecol Plants, Ohnhorststr 18, D-22609 Hamburg, Germany								8							Ecology	WOS:000392008400010		
J	Fenton, Isabel S.; Pearson, Paul N.; Jones, Tom Dunkley; Purvis, Andy								Environmental Predictors of Diversity in Recent Planktonic Foraminifera as Recorded in Marine Sediments								PLOS ONE				11	11					e0165522	10.1371/journal.pone.0165522			NOV 16 2016	2016	Global diversity patterns are thought to result from a combination of environmental and historical factors. This study tests the set of ecological and evolutionary hypotheses proposed to explain the global variation in present-day coretop diversity in the macroperforate planktonic foraminifera, a clade with an exceptional fossil record. Within this group, marine surface sediment assemblages are thought to represent an accurate, although centennial to millennial time-averaged, representation of recent diversity patterns. Environmental variables chosen to capture ocean temperature, structure, productivity and seasonality were used to model a range of diversity measures across the world's oceans. Spatial autoregressive models showed that the same broad suite of environmental variables were important in shaping each of the four largely independent diversity measures (rarefied species richness, Simpson's evenness, functional richness and mean evolutionary age). Sea-surface temperature explains the largest portion of diversity in all four diversity measures, but not in the way predicted by the metabolic theory of ecology. Vertical structure could be linked to increased diversity through the strength of stratification, but not through the depth of the mixed layer. There is limited evidence that seasonal turnover explains diversity patterns. There is evidence for functional redundancy in the low-latitude sites. The evolutionary mechanism of deep-time stability finds mixed support whilst there is relatively little evidence for an out-of-the-tropics model. These results suggest the diversity patterns of planktonic foraminifera cannot be explained by any one environmental variable or proposed mechanism, but instead reflect multiple processes acting in concert.		[Fenton, Isabel S.; Purvis, Andy] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, England; [Fenton, Isabel S.; Purvis, Andy] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Silwood Pk Campus, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berks, England; [Pearson, Paul N.] Cardiff Univ, Sch Earth & Ocean Sci, Cardiff CF10 3AT, S Glam, Wales; [Jones, Tom Dunkley] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Birmingham B15 2TT, W Midlands, England; [Fenton, Isabel S.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, England; [Fenton, Isabel S.] Imperial Coll London, Dept Life Sci, Silwood Pk Campus, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berks, England								23							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000387909300019		
J	Mills, Nicholas J.; Jones, Vincent P.; Baker, Callie C.; Melton, Tawnee D.; Steffan, Shawn A.; Unruh, Thomas R.; Horton, David R.; Shearer, Peter W.; Amarasekare, Kaushalya G.; Milickzy, Eugene								Using plant volatile traps to estimate the diversity of natural enemy communities in orchard ecosystems								BIOLOGICAL CONTROL				102				66	76		10.1016/j.biocontrol.2016.05.001			NOV 2016	2016	In this study we used sticky traps baited with plant volatile lures to monitor the biodiversity of natural enemies in orchard ecosystems in the western U.S. We compared the diversity of predator genera from season total trap catches in 37 different orchards (apple, cherry, pear and walnut) over a two-year period (2010-2011) using standardized Hill number biodiversity indices and community similarity profiles. For a subset of 23 of these orchards we were also able to monitor the change in biodiversity of predator genera over the full growing season in the different orchard crops. A total of 37,854 individuals from 31 different genera of foliage-active generalist predators were collected from all orchards combined. Mean sample coverage was high (0.98) and richness, diversity and evenness differed between crops in 2010, but not in 2011. There was more than 90% similarity in the richness of predator genera among crops and among orchards within crops, but a greater level of differentiation was observed among orchards when variation in their relative abundance and dominance in the communities was taken into account. There was a consistent rise in predator generic richness and diversity through the season in both years for apple, cherry and pear orchards, but in walnut orchards, a steep rise from March to May was followed by a decline through the rest of the season. In an additional component of the study, the species level similarity of predator and parasitoid communities was analyzed for total season trap catch data from six walnut orchards. The rarefied species richness of parasitoids was much greater than that for predators, although the diversity, evenness and dominance of the parasitoid species varied considerably among orchards. The results from this study highlight the fact that natural enemy communities in orchard ecosystems can be effectively monitored using plant volatile traps, and that these communities are surprisingly diverse despite frequent disturbance from pest management intervention. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.		[Mills, Nicholas J.] Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Environm Sci & Policy Management, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Jones, Vincent P.; Baker, Callie C.; Melton, Tawnee D.; Steffan, Shawn A.] Washington State Univ, Dept Entomol, Tree Fruit Res & Extens Ctr, 1100 N Western Ave, Wenatchee, WA 98801 USA; [Unruh, Thomas R.; Horton, David R.; Milickzy, Eugene] USDA ARS, Yakima Agr Res Lab, 5230 Konnowac Pass Rd, Wapato, WA 98951 USA; [Shearer, Peter W.; Amarasekare, Kaushalya G.] Oregon State Univ, Mid Columbia Agr Res & Extens Ctr, 3005 Expt Stn Dr, Hood River, OR 97031 USA; [Amarasekare, Kaushalya G.] Tennessee State Univ, Dept Agr & Environm Sci, Room 202P,Farrell Westbrook Hall, Nashville, TN 37209 USA; [Mills, Nicholas J.] Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Environm Sci & Policy Management, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA								7							Biotechnology & Applied Microbiology; Entomology	WOS:000383938200008		
J	Bitencourt, Bruna Santos; da Silva, Pedro Giovani								Forest regeneration affects dung beetle assemblages (Coleoptera: Scarabaeinae) in the southern Brazilian Atlantic Forest								JOURNAL OF INSECT CONSERVATION				20	5			855	866		10.1007/s10841-016-9917-3			OCT 2016	2016	The Brazilian Atlantic Forest is one of the most diverse environments, but it is also one of the most threatened areas in terms of loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services. Assessment of changes in the community structure during the recovery of forests can be performed using indicator organisms. Dung beetles perform several ecological functions and show high sensitivity to natural and anthropogenic environmental changes. This study aimed to investigate the effect of regeneration time of Atlantic Forest sites on structure of Scarabaeinae assemblages. We sampled dung beetles using ten baited pitfall traps per site, in six sites grouped into three classes of forest regeneration time (similar to 30, similar to 60 and > 80 years) in the southern Brazilian Atlantic Forest, during January 2015. A total of 520 individuals belonging to 16 species and nine genera of dung beetles were sampled. Rarefied species richness did not differ between sites with different regeneration times. Average species richness and abundance of Scarabaeinae was smaller in areas of shorter recovery time. True alpha diversity was higher in areas with intermediate recovery whereas Shannon diversity showed higher values in areas of shorter recovery. Approximately 29 % of the variation in abundance data of Scarabaeinae was explained by environmental variables, with one-third of this variation explained also by spatial predictors. External factors such as landscape management and farming practices in the surroundings must be taken into consideration in management plans and the management of natural areas for the recovery of biodiversity in the Atlantic Forest. These external factors can considerably affect the structure of communities and lead to scenarios of greater diversity in intermediate regeneration sites due to the heterogeneity of the landscape.		[Bitencourt, Bruna Santos; da Silva, Pedro Giovani] Univ Sul Santa Catarina, Posgrad Auditoria & Gestao Ambiental, BR-88704900 Tubarao, SC, Brazil; [da Silva, Pedro Giovani] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Programa Posgrad Ecol, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil; [da Silva, Pedro Giovani] Univ Sul Santa Catarina, Posgrad Auditoria & Gestao Ambiental, BR-88704900 Tubarao, SC, Brazil; [da Silva, Pedro Giovani] Univ Fed Santa Catarina, Programa Posgrad Ecol, BR-88040900 Florianopolis, SC, Brazil								8							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000386714700011		
J	Bennett, Micah G.; Kozak, Justin P.								Spatial and temporal patterns in fish community structure and abundance in the largest US river swamp, the Atchafalaya River floodplain, Louisiana								ECOLOGY OF FRESHWATER FISH				25	4			577	589		10.1111/eff.12235			OCT 2016	2016	Long-term monitoring is critical for documenting population and community trends and for management, especially in large river-floodplain ecosystems that provide important services. Levees have reduced active floodplains in most large rivers, but connectivity in some reaches could promote community resilience. Using multivariate tools and regression, we examined spatial and temporal structure in fish community samples from two decades (>1000 samples, >100 sites) in one of the largest relatively intact river-floodplain ecosystems in North America - the Atchafalaya River (ARB), Louisiana. Assemblages exhibited significant structure temporally and spatially, with most substantial effects of year and hydrologic subdivisions; however, season and water level also influenced community structure. Temporal trends in communities were limited to few areas, while declines in species richness were more widespread; however, rarefied richness trends suggested that declines were slight. Recent and long-term declines in abundance of economically important species (e.g., Black Crappie, Largemouth Bass, Bigmouth Buffalo) and increases in others (e.g., Smallmouth Buffalo, Blue Catfish, Freshwater Drum) drove differences among time periods. Our results suggest that the hydrologic subdivisions of the ARB may be an appropriate scale at which to manage fish populations, hydrology and water quality. Although we could not account for several important factors affecting fish communities in the ARB (e.g., hurricanes, major floods), and were limited by sampling variability, our findings highlight the utility of long-term datasets from large river-floodplain ecosystems for identifying important scales for management, determining species contributions to community change and forming hypotheses about anthropogenic and environmental drivers of variation in fish communities.		[Bennett, Micah G.] Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, 1125 Lincoln Dr,Mail Code 6501, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Bennett, Micah G.] Southern Illinois Univ, Ctr Ecol, 1125 Lincoln Dr,Mail Code 6501, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Kozak, Justin P.] Southern Illinois Univ, Environm Resources & Policy Program, 405 W Grand Ave,Mail Code 4637, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Bennett, Micah G.] Southern Illinois Univ, Dept Zool, 1125 Lincoln Dr,Mail Code 6501, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA; [Bennett, Micah G.] Southern Illinois Univ, Ctr Ecol, 1125 Lincoln Dr,Mail Code 6501, Carbondale, IL 62901 USA								7							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000388307300007		
J	Murphy, Stephen J.; Xu, Kaiyang; Comita, Liza S.								Tree seedling richness, but not neighborhood composition, influences insect herbivory in a temperate deciduous forest community								ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				6	17			6310	6319		10.1002/ece3.2336			SEP 2016	2016	Insect herbivores can serve as important regulators of plant dynamics, but their impacts in temperate forest understories have received minimal attention at local scales. Here, we test several related hypotheses about the influence of plant neighborhood composition on insect leaf damage in southwestern Pennsylvania, USA. Using data on seedlings and adult trees sampled at 36 sites over an approximately 900 ha area, we tested for the effects of total plant density, rarefied species richness (i.e., resource concentration and dietary-mixing hypotheses), conspecific density (i.e., Janzen-Connell hypothesis), and heterospecific density (i.e., herd-immunity hypothesis), on the proportion of leaf tissue removed from 290 seedlings of 20 species. We also tested for the effects of generic-and familial-level neighborhoods. Our results showed that the proportion of leaf tissue removed ranged from zero to just under 50% across individuals, but was generally quite low (<2%). Using linear mixed models, we found a significant negative relationship between insect damage and rarefied species richness, but no relationship with neighborhood density or composition. In addition, leaf damage had no significant effect on subsequent seedling growth or survival, likely due to the low levels of damage experienced by most individuals. Our results provide some support for the resource concentration hypothesis, but suggest a limited role for insect herbivores in driving local-scale seedling dynamics in temperate forest understories.		[Murphy, Stephen J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Evolut Ecol & Organismal Biol, 318 W 12th Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Xu, Kaiyang; Comita, Liza S.] Yale Univ, Sch Forestry & Environm Studies, 195 Prospect St, New Haven, CT 06511 USA; [Comita, Liza S.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Box 0843-03092, Balboa, Ancon, Panama; [Murphy, Stephen J.] Ohio State Univ, Dept Evolut Ecol & Organismal Biol, 318 W 12th Ave, Columbus, OH 43210 USA								10							Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000383362700023		
J	Camana, Mateus; Dala-Corte, Renato Bolson; Becker, Fernando Gertum								Relation between species richness and stream slope in riffle fish assemblages is dependent on spatial scale								ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY OF FISHES				99	8-9			603	612		10.1007/s10641-016-0502-0			SEP 2016	2016	Channel slope is an important variable in lotic systems because it mediates flow. However, stream slope can be measured at various spatial scales and the relation with fish assemblage characteristics may be scale dependent. In this study we investigated the influence of stream slope measured at different spatial scales on fish species richness. We tested three hypotheses: 1) the relation between slope and species richness will be dependent on the spatial scale at which slope is measured; 2) species richness will be inversely related to mean stream slope; 3) species richness will be positively related to stream slope variability. We sampled riffle fish assemblages in 21 streams in southern Brazil. For each stream we measured slope at five different scales and calculated mean slope and slope variation. The influence of slope on local species richness was tested by simple regression analysis using rarefied richness as response variable. We found that the relation between slope and species richness was scale-dependent, because only slope at the whole stream channel was significantly related to species richness. We also observed that steeper streams tended to have less slope variability and lower species richness. These results suggest that processes occurring at the whole stream scale are determinant for local fish species richness. More importantly, they reinforce the need to measure slope at different scales when investigating fish-habitat relations in streams, because the influence of slope may not be detected if assessed at only one scale. We suggest that assessing mean slope and slope variability at different scales should be considered in sampling design of research and conservation aimed at stream fishes.		[Camana, Mateus; Becker, Fernando Gertum] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Dept Ecol, IB, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Dala-Corte, Renato Bolson] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, IB, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Camana, Mateus] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Dept Ecol, IB, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								21							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000382693900002		
J	Ngo Luc Cuong; Langellotto, Gail A.; Tran Loc Thuy; Vu Quynh; Nguyen Thi Thanh Thuy; Barrion, Alberto T.; Chen, Yolanda H.								Arthropod Diversity and Abundance in Wild Rice, <i>Oryza rufipogon</i>, in the Mekong Delta, Vietnam								ANNALS OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA				109	4			542	554		10.1093/aesa/saw017			JUL 2016	2016	Very little is known about the arthropods associated with the wild ancestors of agricultural crops. Given that wild relatives of crop plants are subjected to human pressures of habitat loss and transgene flow, baseline levels of arthropod biodiversity and community composition are urgently needed to detect declines associated with anthropogenic disturbance. Here, we sampled arthropod abundance and community composition on the wild ancestor of cultivated rice, Oryza rufipogon Griffiths, in the Mekong Delta of Vietnam to ask: 1) Do arthropods associated with O. rufipogon fluctuate temporally and spatially in terms of community composition, diversity, and abundance? 2) What is the abundance and diversity of lepidopteran and hemipteran species associated with O. rufipogon across sites and seasons? We found a total of 578 arthropod taxa, distributed across 178 families in 17 orders. Rarefied species richness and arthropod abundance did not vary across the sampled stands of O. rufipogon, but did vary across the years. Arthropod abundance and metrics dependent upon abundance generally declined over the observation period, suggesting that the sampling effects or other unobservable factors may have contributed to the decline in the arthropod community. Overall, predators dominated the community composition, followed by detritivores and herbivores. Predatory and herbivorous taxa were the most speciose guilds. We found 45 unique taxa of Lepidoptera, many of which were previously undescribed on rice. Given that wild relatives such as Oryza rufipogon support a diverse arthropod community, this study provides a baseline evaluation of the arthropod community in this important native habitat.		[Ngo Luc Cuong; Tran Loc Thuy; Vu Quynh; Nguyen Thi Thanh Thuy] Cuu Long Delta Rice Res Inst, Dept Entomol, Can Tho, Vietnam; [Langellotto, Gail A.] Oregon State Univ, Dept Hort, 4017 ALS Bldg, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA; [Barrion, Alberto T.] Univ Philippines, Museum Nat Hist, Los Banos, Philippines; [Chen, Yolanda H.] Univ Vermont, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, 63 Carrigan Dr, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [Chen, Yolanda H.] Univ Vermont, Dept Plant & Soil Sci, 63 Carrigan Dr, Burlington, VT 05405 USA								4							Entomology	WOS:000380220600006		
J	Rey, Pedro J.; Alcantara, Julio M.; Manzaneda, Antonio J.; Sanchez-Lafuente, Alfonso M.								Facilitation contributes to Mediterranean woody plant diversity but does not shape the diversity-productivity relationship along aridity gradients								NEW PHYTOLOGIST				211	2			464	476		10.1111/nph.13916			JUL 2016	2016	The diversity-productivity relationship (humped-back model (HBM)) and the stress-gradient (SGH) hypotheses may be connected when productivity is limited primarily by aridity. We analytically connect both hypotheses and assess the contribution of facilitation to woody plant richness along the aridity gradient of the Western Mediterranean floristic region. We monitored regeneration niches of woody plants, obtaining rarefied species richness and plant relative interaction indices in 54 forests and scrublands in a 1750-km geographical range across Spain, Morocco and the Canary Islands. We verified the monotonic increase in facilitation with aridity postulated by SGH and the humped-shape pattern of species richness expected from HBM, which became manifest after expanding the aridity gradient or crossing vegetation types. Along the gradient, interaction balance turned into facilitation earlier in forest than in scrublands. The effects of aridity and interaction balance on species diversity were additive rather than interdependent. Facilitation is an important driver of woody species richness at macroecological scales because it added up to diversity in most sites, with enhanced contribution with increased stress. The HBM was not shaped by species interactions. Results suggest that facilitation may act in Mediterranean vegetation buffering against critical transitions between states allowing woody plant communities to cope with the rise in aridity expected with global warming.		[Rey, Pedro J.; Alcantara, Julio M.; Manzaneda, Antonio J.; Sanchez-Lafuente, Alfonso M.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain; [Rey, Pedro J.] Univ Jaen, Dept Biol Anim Biol Vegetal & Ecol, E-23071 Jaen, Spain								15							Plant Sciences	WOS:000379213200011		
J	Bossart, J. L.; Antwi, Josephine B.								Limited erosion of genetic and species diversity from small forest patches: Sacred forest groves in an Afrotropical biodiversity hotspot have high conservation value for butterflies								BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION				198				122	134		10.1016/j.biocon.2016.03.029			JUN 2016	2016	Sacred forest groves are often located in some of the world's hottest hotspots of biodiversity, and consequently have high potential conservation value. Recent efforts to quantify their value have focused nearly exclusively on a single component of diversity, species diversity within communities, which may or may not be an effective proxy for a second fundamental component of diversity, genetic diversity within populations. We studied fruit feeding butterfly communities to simultaneously assess to what extent five small sacred groves have retained the level of species and genetic diversity found in two much larger forest reserves. We additionally evaluate whether measures correlate across habitat fragments to investigate how closely these two components of diversity mirror each other. We quantified the diversity and composition of the fruit-feeding butterfly communities at each site and also the haplotype diversity within three specific species that differ with respect to their sensitivity to habitat fragmentation. Of the multiple measures of species and genetic diversity computed, only rarefied species richness was correlated with forest fragment size and even in this case the relationship was weak. Importantly, the limited decline in species richness documented in the sacred groves was not due to species replacements, whereby common, broadly distributed, generalists supplanted more vulnerable species in these communities. Although similar processes are known to drive declines in both species and gene diversity, we found only limited evidence of positive species-genetic diversity correlations (SGDCs), and only in the species most sensitive to fragmentation. Thus, a conservation strategy that emphasizes species complementarity or richness may be ineffective at capturing other critical levels of biodiversity. Overall, our findings demonstrate that even very small forest patches can have a conservation value that rivals that of much larger forest reserves. The implementation of official national and international initiatives that preserve and strengthen existing community-based conservation practices is critically needed to ensure that indigenous conservation areas persist into the future. Published by Elsevier Ltd.		[Bossart, J. L.] SE Louisiana Univ, Dept Biol Sci, SLU 10736, Hammond, LA 70402 USA; [Antwi, Josephine B.] Oregon State Univ, Hermiston Agr Res & Extens Ctr, Hermiston, OR 97838 USA; [Bossart, J. L.] SE Louisiana Univ, Dept Biol Sci, SLU 10736, Hammond, LA 70402 USA								18							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000377735400015		
J	Baynes, Jack; Herbohn, John; Chazdon, Robin L.; Nguyen, Huong; Firn, Jennifer; Gregorio, Nestor; Lamb, David								Effects of fragmentation and landscape variation on tree diversity in post-logging regrowth forests of the Southern Philippines								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				25	5			923	941		10.1007/s10531-016-1098-6			MAY 2016	2016	The conservation value of forest fragments remains controversial. An extensive inventory of rainforest trees in post-logging regrowth forest in the southern Philippines provided a rare opportunity to compare stem density, species richness, diversity and biotic similarity between two types of post-logging forests: broken-canopy forest fragments and adjacent tracts of closed-canopy 'contiguous' forest. Tree density was much lower in the fragments, but rarefied species richness was higher. 'Hill' numbers, computed as the exponential of Shannon's diversity index and the inverse of Simpson's diversity index, indicated that fragments have higher numbers of typical and dominant species compared to contiguous forest. Beta diversity (based on species incidence) and the exponential of Shannon's diversity index was higher in fragmented forest, indicating higher spatial species turnover than in contiguous forest samples. Lower mean values of the Chao-Jaccard index in fragmented forest compared to contiguous forest also indicated a lower probability of shared species across fragments. The high species richness of contiguous forest showed that an earlier single logging event had not caused biodiversity to be degraded leaving mostly generalist species. Fragmentation and further low-level utilisation by local farmers has also not caused acute degradation. Post-logging regrowth forest fragments present a window of opportunity for conservation that may disappear in a few years as edge effects become more apparent. For the conservation of trees in forests in south-east Asia generally, our findings also suggest that while conservation of remaining primary forest may be preferable, the conservation value of post-logging regrowth forests can also be high.		[Baynes, Jack; Herbohn, John; Chazdon, Robin L.; Nguyen, Huong; Gregorio, Nestor] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia; [Firn, Jennifer] Queensland Univ Technol, Brisbane, Qld 4000, Australia; [Lamb, David] Univ Queensland, St Lucia, Qld 4067, Australia; [Baynes, Jack] Univ Sunshine Coast, Sippy Downs, Qld 4556, Australia								9							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000374564100007		
J	Ibanez, Thomas; Grytnes, John-Arvid; Birnbaum, Philippe								Rarefaction and elevational richness pattern: a case study in a high tropical island (New Caledonia, SW Pacific)								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				27	3			441	451		10.1111/jvs.12396			MAY 2016	2016	AimsTo analyse the elevational richness pattern of tree species in New Caledonian tropical rain forests and investigate how the richness pattern is affected by standardizing on area vs standardizing on number of individuals and by sample coverage. LocationNew Caledonia (SW Pacific). MethodsWe re-analysed data from the New Caledonian Plant Inventory and Permanent Plot Network (NC-PIPPN). In this plot network, all trees (DBH5cm) were inventoried from 201 plots measuring 20x20m and located between 5 and 1292m a.s.l. We tested whether the number of trees inventoried in these plots affected the elevational richness pattern, and if so, whether plots with large trees have a low species density because of a low number of inventoried trees. This was done by applying individual-based and coverage-based rarefaction procedures with different cut-off threshold values and re-testing the relationship between estimated species richness and elevation. ResultsAbout 40% of the variability in species density is explained by variation in the density of trees, which in turn had no obvious pattern with elevation. Plots with large trees (high quadratic mean DBH) contained fewer individuals and thus fewer species. Applying rarefaction changed the observed elevational pattern from a peak in species richness approximately in the middle of the studied elevational gradient to a peak at lower elevations. Both the choice of the rarefaction procedure and the cut-off threshold value used to estimate species richness may dramatically change the elevational pattern. ConclusionsWhen the local species pool is large, the use of small plots relative to tree size induces a high correlation between species richness and the number of trees inventoried per plot. To analyse appropriately an elevational pattern for such small plot sizes, species richness should be rarefied to provide additional perspectives. We show that rarefaction changes the elevation at which species richness is expected to be maximal and that increasing the cut-off threshold value sharpens the observed humped pattern.		[Ibanez, Thomas] Inst Agron Neo Caledonien IAC, Diversite Biol & Fonct Ecosyst Terr, BPA5, Noumea 98848, New Caledonia; [Grytnes, John-Arvid] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, POB 7803, N-5020 Bergen, Norway; [Birnbaum, Philippe] Inst Agron Neo Caledonien IAC, CIRAD, UMR AMAP 51, Diversite Biol & Fonct Ecosyst Terr, BPA5, Noumea 98848, New Caledonia; [Ibanez, Thomas] Inst Agron Neo Caledonien IAC, Diversite Biol & Fonct Ecosyst Terr, BPA5, Noumea 98848, New Caledonia								5							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000375147500003		
J	Maunsell, Sarah C.; Burwell, Chris J.; Morris, Rebecca J.; McDonald, William J. F.; Edwards, Edward D.; Oberprieler, Rolf G.; Kitching, Roger L.								Elevational turnover in the composition of leaf miners and their interactions with host plants in Australian subtropical rainforest								AUSTRAL ECOLOGY				41	3			238	247		10.1111/aec.12339			MAY 2016	2016	Leaf miners are specialist herbivorous insects that are potentially vulnerable to environmental change because of their dependency on particular host plants. Little, however, is known about how climate affects the distribution of leaf miner communities and their interactions with host plants. Elevational gradients are useful tools for understanding how ecological communities respond to local clines in climate. Given that plant communities are known to undergo elevational turnover in response to changes in climatic conditions, we expect that leaf miner species will also change with elevation. We repeatedly hand collected leaf miners along three elevational gradients in subtropical rainforest in eastern Australia. Individual leaf miners were counted and identified to species, and their host plants were recorded. We tested if leaf miner species richness and the number of unique interactions among leaf miner and host plant species were affected by elevation. We also tested if the composition of leaf miner species and the composition of interactions between leaf miners and host plants showed a relationship with elevation. The rarefied number of unique leaf miner-host plant interactions significantly decreased with elevation, with a slight peak at approx. 700ma.s.l., while neither rarefied or observed species richness (species density) of leaf miners nor observed numbers of unique interactions (interaction density) were significantly affected by elevation. The composition of leaf miner species and the composition of leaf miner-host plant interactions (occurrence of pairwise interactions) were significantly related to elevation. Elevational turnover in leaf miner species composition indicated that different species varied in their response to changes in biotic and/or abiotic conditions imposed by increasing elevation. Through our analyses, we identified four leaf miner species that may be locally vulnerable to climate change, as a result of their restricted elevational distribution and level of host specificity.		[Maunsell, Sarah C.; Burwell, Chris J.; Kitching, Roger L.] Griffith Univ, Environm Futures Res Inst, Nathan Campus,Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia; [Burwell, Chris J.] Queensland Museum, Biodivers Programme, POB 300, Brisbane, Qld 4101, Australia; [Morris, Rebecca J.] Univ Oxford, Dept Zool, Oxford, England; [McDonald, William J. F.] Brisbane Bot Gardens Mt Coottha, Queensland Govt Dept Environm & Resource Manageme, Queensland Herbarium, Toowong, Qld 4066, Australia; [Edwards, Edward D.; Oberprieler, Rolf G.] CSIRO, Australian Natl Insect Collect, Natl Res Collect Australia, Canberra, ACT, Australia; [Maunsell, Sarah C.] Griffith Univ, Environm Futures Res Inst, Nathan Campus,Kessels Rd, Brisbane, Qld 4111, Australia								6							Ecology	WOS:000375083600002		
J	Clapham, Matthew E.; Karr, Jered A.; Nicholson, David B.; Ross, Andrew J.; Mayhew, Peter J.								Ancient origin of high taxonomic richness among insects								PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				283	1824					20152476	10.1098/rspb.2015.2476			FEB 10 2016	2016	Insects are a hyper-diverse group, comprising nearly three-quarters of all named animal species on the Earth, but the environmental drivers of their richness and the roles of ecological interactions and evolutionary innovations remain unclear. Previous studies have argued that family-level insect richness increased continuously over the evolutionary history of the group, but inclusion of extant family records artificially inflated the relative richness of younger time intervals. Here we apply sampling-standardization methods to a species-level database of fossil insect occurrences, removing biases present in previous richness curves. We show that insect family-richness peaked 125 Ma and that Recent values are only 1.5-3 times as high as the Late Palaeozoic. Rarefied species-richness data also tentatively suggest little or no net increase in richness over the past 125 Myr. The Cretaceous peak in family richness was coincident with major radiations within extant groups but occurred prior to extinctions within more basal groups. Those extinctions may in part be linked to mid-Cretaceous floral turnover following the evolution of flowering plants. Negligible net richness change over the past 125 Myr implies that major radiations within extant groups were offset by reduced richness within groups that are now relict or extinct.		[Clapham, Matthew E.; Karr, Jered A.] Univ Calif Santa Cruz, Dept Earth & Planetary Sci, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 USA; [Nicholson, David B.; Mayhew, Peter J.] Univ York, Dept Biol, York YO10 5YW, N Yorkshire, England; [Nicholson, David B.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Earth Sci, Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, England; [Nicholson, David B.] Natl Museum Scotland, Dept Nat Sci, Chambers St, Edinburgh EH1 1JF, Midlothian, Scotland; [Mayhew, Peter J.] Univ York, Dept Biol, York YO10 5YW, N Yorkshire, England								32							Biology; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology	WOS:000369975500010		
J	Felde, Vivian A.; Peglar, Sylvia M.; Bjune, Anne E.; Grytnes, John-Arvid; Birks, H. John B.								Modern pollen-plant richness and diversity relationships exist along a vegetational gradient in southern Norway								HOLOCENE				26	2			163	175		10.1177/0959683615596843			FEB 2016	2016	The relationships between modern pollen and floristic plant richness, diversity and evenness are assessed using pollen assemblages and associated vegetation data from 52 lakes along an elevational and vegetational gradient in the Setesdal valley of south-central Norway. Various data transformations were applied to minimise bias in the vegetation and pollen datasets. Plant species were transformed to their pollen or spore equivalents to reduce taxonomic biases. Pollen counts were transformed using Andersen's general pollen-representation values for northern European trees and shrubs and the Regional Estimates of Vegetation Abundance from Large Sites (REVEALS) model with pollen-productivity estimates (PPEs) appropriate for Setesdal to minimise pollen-representation bias. Pollen count-size bias (before or after transformation) was eliminated by rarefaction analysis based on bootstrap resampling. Richness and diversity were quantified using Hill numbers (N0, N1, N2), and evenness was estimated as the ratios of N0, N1 and N2. Diversity partitioning was used to estimate diversity. The strongest correlations between pollen and plant richness and diversity are with pollen counts transformed using Andersen's representation values and rarefied to a common count size and with plants transformed to their pollen equivalents. However, if sites from the low-alpine zone are excluded where there are high values of far-transported tree pollen, the richness and diversity relationships are also statistically significant for untransformed pollen data and plants transformed into their pollen equivalents. The effects of data transformation on diversity partitioning and estimates of diversity are explored. We demonstrate that there are statistically significant positive relationships between pollen and plant richness and diversity along the entire elevational gradient after transforming the datasets to minimise biases due to taxonomic differences, differential pollen representation, and pollen-count size, and similar significant positive relationships along the forested parts of the gradient (nemoral, boreonemoral, southern boreal, middle boreal) after transforming the datasets to minimise biases due to taxonomic differences and pollen-count size.		[Felde, Vivian A.; Bjune, Anne E.] Bjerknes Ctr Climate Res, Uni Res Climate, Bergen, Norway; [Felde, Vivian A.; Bjune, Anne E.; Birks, H. John B.] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, Bjerknes Ctr Climate Res, N-5020 Bergen, Norway; [Peglar, Sylvia M.; Bjune, Anne E.; Grytnes, John-Arvid; Birks, H. John B.] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, N-5020 Bergen, Norway; [Birks, H. John B.] UCL, Environm Change Res Ctr, London WC1E 6BT, England; [Felde, Vivian A.] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, POB 7803, N-5020 Bergen, Norway								66							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000368332200001		
J	Ang, Cheng Choon; O'Brien, Michael J.; Ng, Kevin Kit Siong; Lee, Ping Chin; Hector, Andy; Schmid, Bernhard; Shimizu, Kentaro K.								Genetic diversity of two tropical tree species of the Dipterocarpaceae following logging and restoration in Borneo: high genetic diversity in plots with high species diversity								PLANT ECOLOGY & DIVERSITY				9	5-6			459	469		10.1080/17550874.2016.1270363			2016	2016	Background: The impact of logging and restoration on species diversity has been well studied in tropical forests. However, little is known about their effects on genetic diversity within species. Aims: We assess the degree of genetic diversity among dipterocarp seedlings used for enrichment planting of selectively logged forests in Sabah, Malaysia, and compare it with diversity in naturally regenerating seedlings. Methods: We sampled young leaf tissues from seedlings of Shorea leprosula and Parashorea malaanonan for DNA genotyping, using microsatellite markers. Results: The levels of genetic diversity (expected heterozygosity and rarefied allelic richness) of naturally regenerating seedlings were statistically indistinguishable among unlogged, once logged and repeatedly logged forest areas. Enrichment-planted seedlings of P. malaanonan exhibited similar levels of genetic diversity to naturally regenerating seedlings whereas those of S. leprosula had significantly lower genetic diversity than natural seedlings. Interestingly, reduction of genetic variation was consistently observed in single-species plots relative to mixed-species plots among enrichment-planted seedlings. Conclusions: There was no reduction of genetic variation in naturally regenerating dipterocarp seedlings in areas of selective logging. However, genetic variation of enrichment-planted seedlings was lower in single-species plots relative to mixed-species plots. This suggests that enrichment-planting strategies should adopt diverse mixtures that should promote levels of both species richness and genetic diversity within species.		[Ang, Cheng Choon; O'Brien, Michael J.; Schmid, Bernhard; Shimizu, Kentaro K.] Univ Zurich, Dept Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies, Zurich, Switzerland; [O'Brien, Michael J.] CSIC, Estn Expt Zonas Aridas, Almeria, Spain; [O'Brien, Michael J.] Danum Valley Field Ctr, Southeast Asia Rainforest Res Partnership, Lahad Datu, Malaysia; [Ng, Kevin Kit Siong] Forest Res Inst Malaysia, Genet Lab, Kepong, Malaysia; [Lee, Ping Chin] Univ Malaysia Sabah, Fac Sci & Nat Resources, Biotechnol Program, Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia; [Hector, Andy] Univ Oxford, Dept Plant Sci, Oxford, England; [Shimizu, Kentaro K.] Univ Zurich, Dept Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies, Zurich, Switzerland								16							Plant Sciences	WOS:000397054300004		
J	Edia, Oi Edia; Castella, Emmanuel; Konan, Mexmin Koffi; Gattolliat, Jean-Luc; Ouattara, Allassane								Diversity, distribution and habitat requirements of aquatic insect communities in tropical mountain streams (South-eastern Guinea, West Africa)								ANNALES DE LIMNOLOGIE-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF LIMNOLOGY				52				285	300		10.1051/limn/2016016			2016	2016	Considering that knowledge of the biodiversity of a region is the first step toward its conservation and given the paucity of studies on aquatic insects from the Simandou streams, the diversity of these communities was assessed. Aquatic insects were sampled with a hand-net (mesh size: 250 mm) on four occasions between March 2011 and September 2012 at 27 sites. Environmental variables were also recorded. Overall, 129 taxa belonging to 51 families and eight orders were recorded. Multivariate analyses gathered sites into three clusters in regard to aquatic insect composition. The rarefied taxonomic richness showed decreases in association with increasing levels of human impact. Cluster 1 that contained most disturbed sites displayed low taxonomic richness compared with the two others. The highest taxonomic richness was registered in cluster 2 that contained a mixture of upland and lowland sites; the latter remained minimally disturbed. These sites could be considered as reference sites in studies for assessing water quality. Generalised additive models calculated for the most frequent taxa showed that water temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductivity and pH were the incorporated explanatory variables. Therefore, further anthropogenic activities should preserve the surrounding forest in order to preserve the quality of Simandou streams and consequently aquatic biodiversity.		[Edia, Oi Edia; Konan, Mexmin Koffi; Ouattara, Allassane] Univ Nangui Abrogoua, Lab Environm & Biol Aquat, Abidjan, Cote Ivoire; [Edia, Oi Edia; Castella, Emmanuel] Univ Geneva, Inst FA Forel, Sect Sci Terre & Environm, Geneva, Switzerland; [Edia, Oi Edia; Castella, Emmanuel] Univ Geneva, Inst Environm Sci, Geneva, Switzerland; [Gattolliat, Jean-Luc] Musee Cantonal Zool, Lausanne, Switzerland; [Edia, Oi Edia] Univ Nangui Abrogoua, Lab Environm & Biol Aquat, Abidjan, Cote Ivoire; [Edia, Oi Edia] Univ Geneva, Inst FA Forel, Sect Sci Terre & Environm, Geneva, Switzerland; [Edia, Oi Edia] Univ Geneva, Inst Environm Sci, Geneva, Switzerland								2							Limnology	WOS:000383570500025		
J	Heisler, Leanne M.; Somers, Christopher M.; Poulin, Ray G.								Owl pellets: a more effective alternative to conventional trapping for broad-scale studies of small mammal communities								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				7	1			96	103		10.1111/2041-210X.12454			JAN 2016	2016	1. Small mammal community composition is almost universally estimated from conventional trapping, which is logistically difficult to scale up for landscape-level assessments. Owl pellets may be a more effective alternative for measuring small mammal community composition over large geographic areas due to the relative ease and low cost of field collections. However, owl pellets may introduce sampling biases that differ from those associated with conventional trapping. A thorough comparison to conventional traps is required before owl pellets can be widely adopted as an alternative research tool for small mammal studies. 2. We conducted a literature review of owl diet-prey availability studies to: (i) compare small mammal community composition between owl pellets and trapping when the two methods were used simultaneously and (ii) assess the influence of owl genus and habitat type on community composition estimated by these two methods. We used data from 27 published studies, which allowed for 32 comparisons between owl pellets and trapping conducted simultaneously. These studies included 15 owl species from five common genera from different major habitats. 3. Rarefied estimates showed that owls consistently sampled identical or higher species richness compared to conventional trapping. Richness estimates rarefied to the lowest sample size per study were not statistically identical (lDrichness = 0.20 +/- 0.09 SE, P = 0.30); on average, 0.95 +/- 0.13 SE additional species were identified from pellets compared to trapping. Measures of species dominance and evenness estimated from both methods were statistically identical (mu(Delta 1-D) = 0.02 +/- 0.03 SE; mu(Delta PIE) = 0.004 +/- 0.04 SE). Species lists, relative species composition and species rank-order abundance were in moderate agreement between sampling methods (Jaccard = 0.62 +/- 0.04 SE; Bray-Curtis = 0.53 +/- 0.04 SE; Spearman rho = 0.41 +/- 0.07 SE). Linear regression and AIC model selection showed that the performance of pellets versus traps did not differ based on owl genus or habitat type. 4. Small mammal community composition estimated via pellets was better represented compared to estimates from conventional trapping. Composition metrics from the two methods were consistent and not affected by owl genera or habitat type. Thus, owls are an effective alternative for landscape-level assessments of small mammal communities.		[Heisler, Leanne M.; Somers, Christopher M.] Univ Regina, Dept Biol, 3737 Wascana Pkwy, Regina, SK S4S 0A2, Canada; [Heisler, Leanne M.; Poulin, Ray G.] Royal Saskatchewan Museum, 2340 Albert St, Regina, SK S4P 2V7, Canada; [Poulin, Ray G.] Royal Saskatchewan Museum, 2340 Albert St, Regina, SK S4P 2V7, Canada								55							Ecology	WOS:000370955900011		
J	Ross, Ashley A.; Neufeld, Josh D.								Microbial biogeography of a university campus								MICROBIOME				3						66	10.1186/s40168-015-0135-0			DEC 1 2015	2015	Background: Microorganisms are distributed on surfaces within homes, workplaces, and schools, with the potential to impact human health and disease. University campuses represent a unique opportunity to explore the distribution of microorganisms within built environments because of high human population densities, throughput, and variable building usage. For example, the main campus of the University of Waterloo spans four square kilometres, hosts over 40,000 individuals daily, and is comprised of a variety of buildings, including lecture halls, gyms, restaurants, residences, and a daycare. Results: Representative left and right entrance door handles from each of the 65 buildings at the University of Waterloo were swabbed at three time points during an academic term in order to determine if microbial community assemblages coincided with building usage and whether these communities are stable temporally. Across all door handles, the dominant phyla were Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, which comprised 89.0 % of all reads. A total of 713 genera were observed, 16 of which constituted a minimum of 1 % of the 2,458,094 classified and rarefied reads. Archaea were found in low abundance (similar to 0.03 %) but were present on 42.8 % of the door handles on 96 % of buildings across all time points, indicating that they are ubiquitous at very low levels on door handle surfaces. Although inter- handle variability was high, several individual building entrances harbored distinct microbial communities that were consistent over time. The presence of visible environmental debris on a subset of handles was associated with distinct microbial communities (beta diversity), increased richness (alpha diversity), and higher biomass (adenosine 5'-triphosphate; ATP). Conclusions: This study demonstrates highly variable microbial communities associated with frequently contacted door handles on a university campus. Nonetheless, the data also revealed several building-specific and temporally stable bacterial and archaeal community patterns, with a potential impact of accumulated debris, a possible result of low human throughput, on detected microbial communities.		[Ross, Ashley A.; Neufeld, Josh D.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Biol, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada; [Neufeld, Josh D.] Univ Waterloo, Dept Biol, 200 Univ Ave West, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada								25							Microbiology	WOS:000366352500001		
J	Poorter, L.; van der Sande, M. T.; Thompson, J.; Arets, E. J. M. M.; Alarcon, A.; Alvarez-Sanchez, J.; Ascarrunz, N.; Balvanera, P.; Barajas-Guzman, G.; Boit, A.; Bongers, F.; Carvalho, F. A.; Casanoves, F.; Cornejo-Tenorio, G.; Costa, F. R. C.; de Castilho, C. V.; Duivenvoorden, J. F.; Dutrieux, L. P.; Enquist, B. J.; Fernandez-Mendez, F.; Finegan, B.; Gormley, L. H. L.; Healey, J. R.; Hoosbeek, M. R.; Ibarra-Manriquez, G.; Junqueira, A. B.; Levis, C.; Licona, J. C.; Lisboa, L. S.; Magnusson, W. E.; Martinez-Ramos, M.; Martinez-Yrizar, A.; Martorano, L. G.; Maskell, L. C.; Mazzei, L.; Meave, J. A.; Mora, F.; Munoz, R.; Nytch, C.; Pansonato, M. P.; Parr, T. W.; Paz, H.; Perez-Garcia, E. A.; Renteria, L. Y.; Rodriguez-Velazquez, J.; Rozendaal, D. M. A.; Ruschel, A. R.; Sakschewski, B.; Salgado-Negret, B.; Schietti, J.; Simoes, M.; Sinclair, F. L.; Souza, P. F.; Souza, F. C.; Stropp, J.; ter Steege, H.; Swenson, N. G.; Thonicke, K.; Toledo, M.; Uriarte, M.; van der Hout, P.; Walker, P.; Zamora, N.; Pena-Claros, M.								Diversity enhances carbon storage in tropical forests								GLOBAL ECOLOGY AND BIOGEOGRAPHY				24	11			1314	1328		10.1111/geb.12364			NOV 2015	2015	Aim Tropical forests store 25% of global carbon and harbour 96% of the world's tree species, but it is not clear whether this high biodiversity matters for carbon storage. Few studies have teased apart the relative importance of forest attributes and environmental drivers for ecosystem functioning, and no such study exists for the tropics. Location Neotropics. Methods We relate aboveground biomass (AGB) to forest attributes (diversity and structure) and environmental drivers (annual rainfall and soil fertility) using data from 144,000 trees, 2050 forest plots and 59 forest sites. The sites span the complete latitudinal and climatic gradients in the lowland Neotropics, with rainfall ranging from 750 to 4350mmyear(-1). Relationships were analysed within forest sites at scales of 0.1 and 1 ha and across forest sites along large-scale environmental gradients. We used a structural equation model to test the hypothesis that species richness, forest structural attributes and environmental drivers have independent, positive effects on AGB. Results Across sites, AGB was most strongly driven by rainfall, followed by average tree stem diameter and rarefied species richness, which all had positive effects on AGB. Our indicator of soil fertility (cation exchange capacity) had a negligible effect on AGB, perhaps because we used a global soil database. Taxonomic forest attributes (i.e. species richness, rarefied richness and Shannon diversity) had the strongest relationships with AGB at small spatial scales, where an additional species can still make a difference in terms of niche complementarity, while structural forest attributes (i.e. tree density and tree size) had strong relationships with AGB at all spatial scales. Main conclusions Biodiversity has an independent, positive effect on AGB and ecosystem functioning, not only in relatively simple temperate systems but also in structurally complex hyperdiverse tropical forests. Biodiversity conservation should therefore be a key component of the UN Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation strategy.		[Poorter, L.; van der Sande, M. T.; Bongers, F.; Levis, C.; Rozendaal, D. M. A.; Pena-Claros, M.] Wageningen Univ, Forest Ecol & Forest Management Grp, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [van der Sande, M. T.; Arets, E. J. M. M.] Wageningen UR, Alterra, Wageningen, Netherlands; [Thompson, J.] Ctr Ecol & Hydrol, Penicuik, Midlothian, Scotland; [Thompson, J.; Nytch, C.] Univ Puerto Rico, Dept Environm Sci, Rio Piedras, PR 00931 USA; [Alarcon, A.; Ascarrunz, N.; Licona, J. C.; Toledo, M.] FCA UAGRM, IBIF, Santa Cruz, Bolivia; [Alvarez-Sanchez, J.; Barajas-Guzman, G.; Meave, J. A.; Munoz, R.; Perez-Garcia, E. A.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Fac Ciencias, Mexico City 04510, DF, Mexico; [Balvanera, P.; Cornejo-Tenorio, G.; Ibarra-Manriquez, G.; Martinez-Ramos, M.; Mora, F.; Paz, H.; Renteria, L. Y.; Rodriguez-Velazquez, J.] Univ Nacl Autonoma Mexico, Inst Invest Ecosistemas & Sustentabilidad, Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico; [Boit, A.; Sakschewski, B.; Thonicke, K.] Potsdam Inst Climate Impact Res eV PIK, Potsdam, Germany; [Boit, A.; Sakschewski, B.; Thonicke, K.] Berlin Brandenburg Inst Adv Biodivers Res BBIB, D-14195 Berlin, Germany; [Carvalho, F. A.; Costa, F. R. C.; Junqueira, A. B.; Levis, C.; Magnusson, W. E.; Pansonato, M. P.; Schietti, J.; Souza, P. F.; Souza, F. C.] INPA, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Casanoves, F.] CATIE, Biostat Unit, Turrialba, Costa Rica; [de Castilho, C. V.] Embrapa Roraima, Boa Vista, Brazil; [Duivenvoorden, J. F.] Univ Amsterdam, IBED, Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Dutrieux, L. P.] Wageningen Univ, Lab GIS & Remote Sensing, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Enquist, B. J.] Univ Arizona, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA; [Enquist, B. J.] Santa Fe Inst, Santa Fe, NM 87501 USA; [Fernandez-Mendez, F.] Univ Tolima, Grp Invest Biodiversidad & Dinam Ecosistemas Trop, Ibague, Colombia; [Fernandez-Mendez, F.] Univ Fed Vicosa, Lab Ecol & Evolut Plant, Vicosa, MG, Brazil; [Finegan, B.] CATIE, Prod & Conservat Forests Programme, Turrialba, Costa Rica; [Gormley, L. H. L.; Healey, J. R.; Sinclair, F. L.] Bangor Univ, Sch Environm Nat Resources & Geog, Bangor, Gwynedd, Wales; [Hoosbeek, M. R.] Wageningen Univ, Dept Soil Qual, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Junqueira, A. B.] Wageningen Univ, Ctr Crop Syst Anal, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Junqueira, A. B.] Wageningen Univ, Knowledge Technol & Innovat Grp, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Lisboa, L. S.] Univ Sao Paulo, ESALQ, Piracicaba, Brazil; [Martinez-Yrizar, A.] UNAM, Inst Ecol, Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico; [Martorano, L. G.; Mazzei, L.; Ruschel, A. R.] Embrapa Amazonia Oriental, Belem, Para, Brazil; [Maskell, L. C.; Parr, T. W.] CEH, Lancaster, England; [Simoes, M.] Embrapa Solos, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil; [Rozendaal, D. M. A.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT USA; [Salgado-Negret, B.] Inst Invest Recursos Biol Alexander von Humboldt, Bogota, Colombia; [Sinclair, F. L.] World Agroforestry Ctr ICRAF, Nairobi, Kenya; [Stropp, J.] Univ Fed Alagoas, Inst Biol & Hlth Sci, Maceio, Brazil; [ter Steege, H.] Nat Biodivers Ctr, Leiden, Netherlands; [ter Steege, H.] Univ Utrecht, Ecol & Biodivers Grp, Utrecht, Netherlands; [Swenson, N. G.] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Uriarte, M.] Columbia Univ, Dept Ecol Evolut & Environm Biol, New York, NY USA; [van der Hout, P.] Van der Hout Forestry Consulting, Rotterdam, Netherlands; [Walker, P.] Wildtracks, Belize City, Belize; [Zamora, N.] Inst Nacl Biodiversidad INBio, Santo Domingo, Costa Rica; [Poorter, L.] Wageningen Univ, Forest Ecol & Forest Management Grp, POB 47, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands								338							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000362796400011		
J	Rowe, Rebecca J.; Heaney, Lawrence R.; Rickart, Eric A.								Scale effects on the pattern and predictors of small mammal diversity along a local elevational gradient in the Great Basin								JOURNAL OF BIOGEOGRAPHY				42	10			1964	1974		10.1111/jbi.12554			OCT 2015	2015	AimEvaluation of the generality of the diversity-elevation relationship has highlighted effects of scale (spatial extent and grain size) on pattern perception. In contrast, the effects of scale on the attribution of drivers of diversity along elevational gradients remain largely unexplored. This is important because many causal factors have been proposed, and remotely sensed data about abiotic factors are available at increasingly fine grain sizes. Here, we evaluate the effects both of the resolution of the species diversity estimate on the pattern perceived, and of environmental predictor grain size on the potential contribution to each pattern. LocationRuby Mountains, Nevada, western North America. MethodsFor the small mammal fauna along one local elevational gradient, we compared patterns among estimates of richness derived from site-based occurrences rarefied by survey effort and those inferred from interpolation across species' elevational ranges. Using an information-theoretic approach, we evaluated the relative importance of spatial and environmental factors in structuring each richness distribution. Climate and habitat were assessed at coarse and fine grain sizes. Comparisons were based on model fit and relative variable importance. ResultsWe find general congruence in the diversity-elevation relationship, with peak diversity near the midpoint of the sampled gradient. Despite this commonality in pattern, we find the attribution of underlying drivers is substantially influenced by the type of richness estimate and by the grain size of the predictor variables. Main conclusionsOur results illustrate that the factors identified as predictors of diversity can be sensitive to grain size, and that this sensitivity is not equally apparent under different measures of richness obtained from the same survey data. We call for broader discussion of scale effects and resolution appropriateness for elevational diversity gradients. This is particularly important because mismatches in scale may result in misguided conservation or management initiatives.		[Rowe, Rebecca J.] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Nat Resources & Environm, Durham, NH 03824 USA; [Heaney, Lawrence R.] Field Museum, Div Mammals, Chicago, IL 60605 USA; [Rickart, Eric A.] Univ Utah, Nat Hist Museum Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84108 USA; [Rowe, Rebecca J.] Univ New Hampshire, Dept Nat Resources & Environm, 56 Coll Rd, Durham, NH 03824 USA								12							Ecology; Geography, Physical	WOS:000361181900015		
J	Gezon, Zachariah J.; Wyman, Eli S.; Ascher, John S.; Inouye, David W.; Irwin, Rebecca E.								The effect of repeated, lethal sampling on wild bee abundance and diversity								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				6	9			1044	1054		10.1111/2041-210X.12375			SEP 2015	2015	1. Bee pollinators provide a critical ecosystem service to wild and agricultural plants but are reported to be declining world-wide due to anthropogenic change. Long-term data on bee abundance and diversity are scarce, and the need for additional quantitative sampling using repeatable methods has been emphasized. Recently, monitoring programmes have begun using a standardized method that employs a combination of pan traps and sweep netting, resulting in lethal sampling of bees. This standardized method can remove a large number of bees from sites during each sampling day, raising concern that the sampling itself could have a negative effect on bee populations. 2. We conducted an experiment to assess whether lethal sampling for bees using pan traps and netting affected bee abundance and diversity when done every two weeks throughout a season and over multiple years. We compared bee abundance, richness, evenness and functional group composition between sites that had been sampled every two weeks from 2009 to 2012 to similar sites not previously sampled. 3. We found that the standardized method for sampling bees, with specimens from 132 morphospecies, did not affect bee communities in terms of abundance, rarefied richness, evenness, or functional group composition. Thus, our results indicate that the bee communities we sampled are robust to such sampling efforts, despite removing an average of 2862 bees per season. 4. We discuss several explanations for why sampling did not affect bee abundance or community structure, including a density-dependent response to reduced competition for resources. 5. These results suggest that bee monitoring programmes sampling once every two weeks with pan traps and netting will not affect bee community structure. We urge researchers monitoring bees to utilize standardized protocols so that results can be compared across space and time.		[Gezon, Zachariah J.; Irwin, Rebecca E.] Dartmouth Coll, Dept Biol Sci, Hanover, NH 03755 USA; [Gezon, Zachariah J.; Inouye, David W.; Irwin, Rebecca E.] Rocky Mt Biol Labs, Crested Butte, CO 81224 USA; [Wyman, Eli S.] Amer Museum Nat Hist, Div Invertebrate Zool, New York, NY 10024 USA; [Ascher, John S.] Natl Univ Singapore, Dept Biol Sci, Singapore 117543, Singapore; [Inouye, David W.] Univ Maryland, Dept Biol, College Pk, MD 20742 USA; [Gezon, Zachariah J.] Dartmouth Coll, Dept Biol Sci, 78 Coll St, Hanover, NH 03755 USA								68							Ecology	WOS:000362916100008		
J	Srivastava, Jyoti; Prasad, Vandana								Effect of global warming on diversity pattern in <i>Nypa</i> mangroves across Paleocene-Eocene transition in the paleo-equatorial region of the Indian sub-continent								PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY				429				1	12		10.1016/j.palaeo.2015.03.026			JUL 1 2015	2015	The Paleocene-Eocene transition is considered a period of excessive global warming that characterizes the highest temperature of the Cenozoic. To trace the response of mangrove vegetation to this early Paleogene warming, species diversity of Spinizonocolpites pollen (Nypa) was studied across Paleocene-Eocene transition. Two paleo-equatorial shallow marine stratigraphic sections Ranikor Barsora and Jathang from the east Khasi hills, South Shillong Plateau, Meghalaya were studied. Species diversity of Spinizonocolpites was inferred from pollen assemblages in aforementioned sections. Estimation of biodiversity through range-through method, Shannon-Wiener index, Simpson diversity index, rarefied richness curves and detrended correspondence analysis was done to assess the diversity pattern before, during, and after the warming event. Mean species diversity of paleo-mangroves inferred by counting the number of Spinizonocolpites species stratigraphically in the pollen assemblage, showed higher diversity during Paleocene/Eocene boundary in both the sections, followed by a significant decline during the Eocene. This pattern was consistent upon quantitative estimation for sample size, number of samples/time unit, lithofacies and depositional systems. Extreme warm and humid climate with high precipitation and good upstream runoff led to low saline conditions in coastal areas during Paleocene-Eocene boundary interval in paleo-equatorial region. This favored the diversification of Nypa, providing opportunities for new species in a wide range of low saline tidal zones to flourish. Post-warming during late Ypresian, decrease in precipitation, humidity and low upstream runoff, resulted in the restriction of low saline tidal zones in coastal areas, thus causing a decline in the diversity of Nypa mangrove. Hence, variations in species diversity and origination rates of the back mangrove palm genus Nypa described under Spinizonocolpites during the Paleocene-Eocene transition constitute an important step in understanding the effect of global warming on mangrove vegetation in paleo-equatorial region. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Srivastava, Jyoti; Prasad, Vandana] Birbal Sahni Inst Paleobot, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Prasad, Vandana] Birbal Sahni Inst Paleobot, 53 Univ Rd, Lucknow 226007, Uttar Pradesh, India								11							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Paleontology	WOS:000355355100001		
J	Luescher, Gisela; Jeanneret, Philippe; Schneider, Manuel K.; Hector, Andrew; Arndorfer, Michaela; Balazs, Katalin; Baldi, Andras; Bailey, Debra; Choisis, Jean-Philippe; Dennis, Peter; Eiter, Sebastian; Elek, Zoltan; Fjellstad, Wendy; Gillingham, Phillipa K.; Kainz, Maximilian; Kovacs-Hostyanszki, Aniko; Huelsbergenk, Kurt-Juergen; Paoletti, Maurizio G.; Papaja-Huelsbergenk, Susanne; Sarthou, Jean-Pierre; Siebrecht, Norman; Wolfrum, Sebastian; Herzog, Felix								Strikingly high effect of geographic location on fauna and flora of European agricultural grasslands								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				16	4			281	290		10.1016/j.baae.2015.04.003			JUN 2015	2015	Wild bees, spiders, earthworms and plants contribute considerably to biodiversity in grasslands and fulfil vital ecological functions. They also provide valuable services to agriculture, such as pollination, pest control and maintenance of soil quality. We investigated the responses of wild bees, spiders, earthworms and plants to geographic location, agricultural management and surrounding landscape variables using a dataset of 357 grassland fields within 88 farms in six European regions. Regions and taxonomic groups were selected to have contrasting properties, in order to capture the multiple facets of European grasslands. Geographic location alone had a dominant effect on the fauna and flora communities. Depending on the taxonomic group, various agricultural management and surrounding landscape variables alone had an additional significant effect on observed species richness, rarefied species richness and/or abundance, but it was always small. Bee species richness and abundance decreased with increasing number of mechanical operations (e.g. cutting). Observed spider species richness and abundance were unrelated to measured aspects of agricultural management or to surrounding landscape variables, whereas rarefied species richness showed significant relations to nitrogen input, habitat diversity and amount of grassland habitats in the surroundings. Earthworm abundance increased with increasing nitrogen input but earthworm species richness did not. Observed plant species richness decreased with increasing nitrogen input and increased when there were woody habitats in the surroundings. Rarefied plant species richness decreased with mechanical operations. Investigating multiple regions, taxonomic groups and aspects of fauna and flora communities allowed identifying the main factors structuring communities, which is necessary for designing appropriate conservation measures and ensuring continued supply of services.		[Luescher, Gisela; Jeanneret, Philippe; Schneider, Manuel K.; Bailey, Debra; Herzog, Felix] Inst Sustainabil Sci ISS, Agroscope, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland; [Luescher, Gisela; Hector, Andrew] Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Sci, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland; [Hector, Andrew] Univ Oxford, Dept Plant Sci, Oxford OX1 3RB, England; [Arndorfer, Michaela] Univ Nat Resources & Life Sci Vienna, A-1180 Vienna, Austria; [Balazs, Katalin] Szent Istvan Univ, MKK, Inst Environm & Landscape Management, H-2100 Godollo, Hungary; [Baldi, Andras; Kovacs-Hostyanszki, Aniko] MTA OK Lendulet Ecosyst Serv Res Grp, H-2163 Vacratot, Hungary; [Choisis, Jean-Philippe] INRA, UMR DYNAFOR 1201, F-31324 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Dennis, Peter; Gillingham, Phillipa K.] Aberystwyth Univ, Inst Biol Environm & Rural Sci, Aberystwyth SY23 3DD, Dyfed, Wales; [Eiter, Sebastian; Fjellstad, Wendy] Norwegian Forest & Landscape Inst, NO-1431 As, Norway; [Elek, Zoltan] Eotvos Lorand Univ, Inst Biol, MTA ELTE MTM Ecol Res Grp, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary; [Kainz, Maximilian; Huelsbergenk, Kurt-Juergen; Papaja-Huelsbergenk, Susanne; Wolfrum, Sebastian] Tech Univ Munich, D-8535 Freising Weihenstephan, Germany; [Gillingham, Phillipa K.] Fac Sci & Technol, Poole BH12 5BB, Dorset, England; [Paoletti, Maurizio G.] Univ Padua, Dept Biol, I-35121 Padua, Italy; [Sarthou, Jean-Pierre] INRA, UMR AGIR 1248, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Sarthou, Jean-Pierre] Univ Toulouse, INPT ENSAT, UMR AGIR 1248, F-31326 Castanet Tolosan, France; [Jeanneret, Philippe] Inst Sustainabil Sci ISS, Agroscope, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland								10							Ecology	WOS:000354173300001		
J	van Kleef, H.; Verberk, W. C. E. P.; Kimenai, F. F. P.; van der Velde, G.; Leuven, R. S. E. W.								Natural recovery and restoration of acidified shallow soft-water lakes: Successes and bottlenecks revealed by assessing life-history strategies of chironomid larvae								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				16	4			325	334		10.1016/j.baae.2015.02.007			JUN 2015	2015	Acidification has led to a strong decline of species characteristic of shallow soft-water lakes. In spite of reductions in acidifying deposition, natural recovery of biodiversity is modest or even absent, suggesting that the impact of acidification is difficult to reverse. We compared recovery from acidification in non-restored and restored lakes using data from 1983 and 2004. In restored lakes, accumulated organic matter was removed and alkaline water was supplied, resulting in an increase in pH and alkalinity and a decrease in ammonium, sulphur and aluminium. For evaluation of biotic changes we selected chironomid larvae (Diptera). In restored lakes, rarefied species richness increased, chironomid species composition changed and responses of chironomid taxa and their life-history strategies indicated a shift towards pre-acidification assemblages. Species adapted to dynamic and stressful environments decreased in favour of those with life history strategies suitable for more benign environments. In non-restored lakes, chironomid response did not indicate a recovery, despite an improved water chemistry in terms of decreased acidity and sulphur (not ammonium and aluminium). Instead, stressful conditions related to oxygen shortage became more prevalent as a decrease was observed in the chironomids least adapted to periods with low oxygen availability. Acidification has inhibited decomposition, resulting in the accumulation of organic material. Natural recovery from acidification resumed and increased the decomposition of this accumulated organic material, resulting in release of nutrients, consumption of oxygen and a decline of sensitive bottom-dwelling fauna such as chironomids. Therefore, active restoration by removal of accumulated organic matter from sand bottoms is essential for a recovery of chironomid assemblages.		[van Kleef, H.] Bargerveen Fdn, Nijmegen, Netherlands; [van Kleef, H.; Verberk, W. C. E. P.; Kimenai, F. F. P.; van der Velde, G.; Leuven, R. S. E. W.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Inst Water & Wetland Res, NL-6525 ED Nijmegen, Netherlands; [van der Velde, G.] Nat Biodivers Ctr, Leiden, Netherlands; [Leuven, R. S. E. W.] Radboud Univ Nijmegen, Inst Water & Wetland Res, NL-6525 ED Nijmegen, Netherlands								8							Ecology	WOS:000354173300006		
J	Suganuma, Marcio S.; Durigan, Giselda								Indicators of restoration success in riparian tropical forests using multiple reference ecosystems								RESTORATION ECOLOGY				23	3			238	251		10.1111/rec.12168			MAY 2015	2015	Forest restoration by planting trees often accelerates succession, but the trajectories toward reference ecosystems have rarely been evaluated. Using a chronosequence (4-53 years) of 26 riparian forest undergoing restoration in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest, we modeled how the variables representing forest structure, tree species richness and composition, and the proportion of plant functional guilds change through time. We also estimated the time required for these variables to reach different types of reference ecosystems: old-growth forest (OGF), degraded forest, and secondary forest. Among the attributes which follow a predictable trajectory over time are: the basal area, canopy cover, density and tree species richness, as well as proportions of shade tolerant and slow growing species or individuals. Most of the variation in density of pteridophythes, lianas, shrubs and phorophythes, proportion of animal-dispersed individuals, rarefied richness and floristic similarity with reference ecosystems remain unexplained. Estimated time to reach the reference ecosystems is, in general, shorter for structural attributes than for species composition or proportion of functional guilds. The length of this time varies among the three types of reference ecosystems for most attributes. For instance, tree species richness and proportion of shade tolerant or slow growing individuals become similar to secondary forests in about 40 years, but is estimated to take 70 years or more to reach the OGF. Of all the variables considered, canopy cover, basal area, density, and richness of the understory-by their ecological relevance and predictability-are recommended as ecological indicators for monitoring tropical forest restoration success.		[Suganuma, Marcio S.; Durigan, Giselda] Assis State Forest, Forestry Inst Sao Paulo State, BR-19802970 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Suganuma, Marcio S.] Univ Sao Paulo, EESC, Environm Engn Sci PPG SEA, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Suganuma, Marcio S.] Assis State Forest, Forestry Inst Sao Paulo State, POB 104, BR-19802970 Sao Paulo, Brazil								127							Ecology	WOS:000358129000006		
J	Sivarajah, Branaavan; Kurek, Joshua; Ruehland, Kathleen M.; Smol, John P.								Effects of <i>Didymosphenia geminata</i> blooms on benthic diatom assemblages in the Restigouche River Watershed, eastern Canada								BOTANY				93	5			317	323		10.1139/cjb-2014-0216			MAY 2015	2015	Nuisance Didymosphenia geminata (Lyngbye) M. Schmidt (didymo) blooms were first reported in 2006 from the Restigouche River Watershed (RRW), eastern Canada. Although government agencies and recreational users are concerned about these blooms, little is known about the impact on biota and (or) the structure and function of the relatively pristine riverine systems of the RRW. Here, we assess whether didymo blooms affect overall benthic diatom assemblage composition by examining epilithic samples from middle stretches of the Patapedia and Upsalquitch rivers. Significant (albeit minor) differences (P < 0.05) in diatom assemblage composition between sites, with and without didymo blooms, were only observed from the Patapedia River. Rarefied diatom species diversity (Hill's N2) and rarefied richness did not differ significantly among sites, regardless of the presence or absence of blooms. Our data show that didymo blooms have minimal effect on benthic diatom assemblage composition in the RRW.		[Sivarajah, Branaavan; Kurek, Joshua; Ruehland, Kathleen M.; Smol, John P.] Queens Univ, Dept Biol, PEARL, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada; [Smol, John P.] Queens Univ, Dept Biol, PEARL, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada								4							Plant Sciences	WOS:000353660200007		
J	Chao, Anne; Chiu, Chun-Huo; Hsieh, T. C.; Davis, Thomas; Nipperess, David A.; Faith, Daniel P.								Rarefaction and extrapolation of phylogenetic diversity								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				6	4			380	388		10.1111/2041-210X.12247			APR 2015	2015	Traditional species diversity measures do not make distinctions among species. Faith's phylogenetic diversity (PD), which is defined as the sum of the branch lengths of a phylogenetic tree connecting all species, takes into account phylogenetic differences among species and has found many applications in various research fields. In this paper, we extend Faith's PD to represent the total length of a phylogenetic tree from any fixed point on its main trunk. Like species richness, Faith's PD tends to be an increasing function of sampling effort and thus tends to increase with sample completeness. We develop in this paper the PD accumulation curve' (an extension of the species accumulation curve) to depict how PD increases with sampling size and sample completeness. To make fair comparisons of Faith's PD among several assemblages based on sampling data from each assemblage, we derive both theoretical formulae and analytic estimators for seamless rarefaction (interpolation) and extrapolation (prediction). We develop a lower bound of the undetected PD for an incomplete sample to guide the extrapolation; the PD estimator for an extrapolated sample is generally reliable up to twice the size of the empirical sample. We propose an integrated curve that smoothly links rarefaction and extrapolation to standardize samples on the basis of sample size or sample completeness. A bootstrap method is used to obtain the unconditional variances of PD estimators and to construct the confidence interval of the expected PD for a fixed sample size or fixed degree of sample completeness. This facilitates comparison of multiple assemblages of both rarefied and extrapolated samples. We illustrate our formulae and estimators using empirical data sets from Australian birds in two sites. We discuss the extension of our approach to the case of multiple incidence data and to incorporate species abundances.		[Chao, Anne; Chiu, Chun-Huo; Hsieh, T. C.] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan; [Davis, Thomas; Nipperess, David A.] Macquarie Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia; [Faith, Daniel P.] Australian Museum, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia; [Chao, Anne] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan								63							Ecology	WOS:000352794100003		
J	Yolanda Bizuet-Flores, Maria; Luisa Jimenez-Jimenez, Maria; Zavala-Hurtado, Alejandro; Corcuera, Pablo								Diversity patterns of ground dwelling spiders (Arachnida: Araneae) in five prevailing plant communities of the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico								REVISTA MEXICANA DE BIODIVERSIDAD				86	1			153	163		10.7550/rmb.45444			MAR 2015	2015	We analyzed the distribution and diversity patterns of ground dwelling spiders in the main plant associations of the protected area known as Churince, in the Cuatro Cienegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico. Spiders were collected with pitfall ramp traps during the years 2011 and 2012. We found 29 families and 144 morpho-species. The most abundant families were Gnaphosidae, Lycosidae and S alticidae. The most common species were Gnaphosa sp. and G. hirsutipes. There were 4 new records for Mexico and 4 for the Chihuahuan Desert, including 2 possible new species of Sergiolus and Oecobius. The number of species was high in comparison when compared with other studies in the Chihuahuan and Sonoran deserts. The species abundances were fitted to the Fisher distribution. The rarefied richness was highest at sites with denser vegetation and high humidity. Dominance was high and richness low in sparsely vegetated sites. The wandering hunters were dominant in all sites, but the guild diversity was higher in sites with high plant complexity. All Rights Reserved (C) 2015 Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Instituto de Biologia.		[Yolanda Bizuet-Flores, Maria] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana, Ciencias Biol & Salud, Mexico City 09340, DF, Mexico; [Yolanda Bizuet-Flores, Maria; Zavala-Hurtado, Alejandro; Corcuera, Pablo] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana Iztapalapa, Dept Biol, Mexico City 09340, DF, Mexico; [Luisa Jimenez-Jimenez, Maria] Ctr Invest Biol Noroeste, Colecc Aracnidos & Insectos, La Paz 23096, BCS, Mexico; [Corcuera, Pablo] Univ Autonoma Metropolitana Iztapalapa, Dept Biol, Av San Rafael Atlixco 186, Mexico City 09340, DF, Mexico								16							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000355064100016		
J	Zuschin, Martin; Ebner, Claudia								COMPOSITIONAL FIDELITY OF DEATH ASSEMBLAGES FROM A CORAL REEF-ASSOCIATED TIDAL-FLAT AND SHALLOW SUBTIDAL LAGOON IN THE NORTHERN RED SEA								PALAIOS				30	3			181	191		10.2110/palo.2014.032			MAR 1 2015	2015	This study focuses on quantitative analysis of the species composition and distribution of living and dead mollusks to assess fidelity of death assemblages in a protected tidal flat and a shallow subtidal lagoon behind a fringing reef from the Indo-Pacific province. We evaluate how well the death assemblage (DA) reflects the original living community and whether there was a recent ecological shift in species composition. Quantitative analysis of 18 samples from unvegetated sandy substrata shows that dead individuals dominate in the shallow subtidal lagoon, but living and dead individuals were roughly equally abundant on the tidal flat. This difference points to rapid degradation or export of dead shells from tidal flats, leading to smaller potential for time averaging. Rarefied species richness and diversity of DAs is higher than that of the living assemblages (LAs) at the scale of habitats and at the scale of the study area, and this difference in richness is stronger and live-dead (LD) agreement in composition is smaller in the subtidal than in the intertidal habitats. Distinct assemblages characterized intertidal and subtidal habitats both in LAs and DAs, and the rank-abundance distributions of DAs generally corresponded to that of LAs. We suggest that anthropogenic impact in the area did not result in a major environmental change in the subtidal environment during the past few decades because existing small differences between LAs and DAs can be explained by some degree of time averaging and small-scale redistribution of shells. On the tidal flat, however, the lower time-averaging of the DA and the generalistic life habits of prominent members in the LA do not exclude a major shift.		[Zuschin, Martin; Ebner, Claudia] Univ Vienna, Dept Palaeontol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Zuschin, Martin] Univ Vienna, Dept Palaeontol, Althanstr 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria								14							Geology; Paleontology	WOS:000352277300002		
J	Queiroz, Rubens Teixeira; Moro, Marcelo Freire; Bezerra Loiola, Maria Iracema								Evaluating the relative importance of woody versus non-woody plants for alpha-diversity in a semiarid ecosystem in Brazil								PLANT ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				148	3			361	376		10.5091/plecevo.2015.1071			2015	2015	Background and aims - Floristic surveys in tropical ecosystems are strongly biased towards collecting woody plants, overlooking the non-woody component even in semiarid ecosystems, where they can be predominant. This has led to an undervaluation of plant biodiversity in semiarid ecosystems because, as we show here, these areas have a high diversity of herbaceous species, sometimes much higher than that of woody plants. The semiarid Caatinga, in Northeastern Brazil, is one of such areas. Previously thought to be a species poor biome, these ecosystems are now understood as having a diverse flora, well adapted to dry conditions, including many therophytic species. Methods - We performed an extensive survey on plant diversity in a semiarid Caatinga site paying special attention to the non-woody component and compared it with the previously available data on woody plants for the same site. We used rarefied and extrapolated sampling curves to evaluate to what extent woody species are well sampled, based on the published data for trees and shrubs. We also constructed habit spectra to compare the relative importance of woody versus non-woody species in our site and across different Caatinga sites. Key results - Although the asymptotic richness for woody species is low when compared to other areas within Caatinga, the total alpha-diversity in the region is high if non-woody plants are considered in the study. We present habit and life form spectra to show that in this semiarid area most of the local biodiversity is composed by short-lived, usually under sampled, therophytes. Conclusion - We discuss how the focus on woody plants has underestimated the total alpha diversity of semiarid ecosystems. We call the attention of ecologists and phytosociologists collecting in semiarid ecosystems to focus not only on large trees and shrubs, but also to look down and collect the usually neglected, but very rich non-woody component.		[Queiroz, Rubens Teixeira] Univ Fed Paraiba, Ctr Ciencias Exatas & Nat, Lab Bot, Dept Sistemat & Ecol, BR-58051900 Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil; [Moro, Marcelo Freire] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Vegetal, BR-13083970 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Bezerra Loiola, Maria Iracema] Univ Fed Ceara, Ctr Ciencias, Dept Biol, Lab Taxon Angiospermae, BR-60451760 Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Moro, Marcelo Freire] Univ Estadual Campinas, Inst Biol, Dept Biol Vegetal, Bl M CP 6109, BR-13083970 Campinas, SP, Brazil								12							Plant Sciences	WOS:000366150800007		
J	Franssen, Nathan R.; Gilbert, Eliza I.; Propst, David L.								Effects of longitudinal and lateral stream channel complexity on native and non-native fishes in an invaded desert stream								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				60	1			16	30		10.1111/fwb.12464			JAN 2015	2015	Understanding how habitat heterogeneity influences the structure of communities has been a longstanding goal of ecologists. Identifying how stream channel complexity affects fishes will be particularly important in systems simplified by anthropogenic activities and encroachment of non-native riparian vegetation. Here, we assessed how large-scale longitudinal distribution of lateral stream channel complexity from anthropogenically channelised, naturally braided and canyon-bound reaches of the San Juan River in New Mexico and Utah, U.S.A., correlated with species richness, evenness and the relative abundance of small-bodied native and non-native fishes. We also contrasted fish assemblages at a smaller scale, in the most laterally complex reach of the river, by comparing fish assemblages between primary channel and secondary channel habitats as well as in newly restored secondary channels. Rarefied fish species richness was generally highest in the braided reach of the river and the longitudinal distribution of total fish densities varied temporally. Contrary to our predictions, native fish densities were highest in the most upstream and anthropogenically channelised reach of the river. Non-native fish densities tended to be highest in the downstream braided reach, and all fishes were sparse in the least complex canyon-bound reach. Total fish densities were higher in secondary channels compared with primary channels, and non-native fishes were responsible for this difference. Fish assemblages in recently restored secondary channels were generally similar to those in naturally occurring ones. Our results suggest that lateral channel complexity can facilitate greater species richness at larger scales and is likely to provide habitats for fishes that are rare or not found in larger primary channels. These findings also suggest reduced channel complexity may lower the ability of riverine systems to support diverse fish assemblages.		[Franssen, Nathan R.; Propst, David L.] Univ New Mexico, Dept Biol, Albuquerque, NM 87171 USA; [Franssen, Nathan R.; Propst, David L.] Univ New Mexico, Museum Southwestern Biol, Albuquerque, NM 87171 USA; [Gilbert, Eliza I.] New Mexico Dept Game & Fish, Fisheries Management Div, Santa Fe, NM USA; [Franssen, Nathan R.] Univ New Mexico, Dept Biol, Albuquerque, NM 87171 USA								10							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000346069800002		
J	Reid, Brendan N.; Peery, M. Z.								Land use patterns skew sex ratios, decrease genetic diversity and trump the effects of recent climate change in an endangered turtle								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				20	12			1425	1437		10.1111/ddi.12243			DEC 2014	2014	AimChanges in both land use and climate can cause population declines and species extinctions, but the relative effects of these two stressors are often dependent on species-specific life histories. Turtles are highly threatened as a taxonomic group and are particularly sensitive to environmental change due to their life history, habitat preferences and physiology. We used both sex data and genetic diversity across a landscape-scale gradient in land use intensity and recent climate change to characterize the relative effects of these factors on three turtle species (including the endangered Blanding's turtle, Emydoidea blandingii) with different life histories and thus different vulnerabilities to environmental change. LocationWisconsin, USA. MethodsTurtles were captured and sampled for genetic analyses at 18 sites. Sampled individuals were genotyped for species-specific sets of microsatellite markers, and population-level genetic diversity was assessed using rarefied allelic richness and heterozygosity. The relative effects of road density, public land area and recent climate change on genetic diversity and sex ratio were evaluated using regression methods and model-selection criteria. ResultsIncreased land use intensity was associated with male-skewed sex ratios and decreased genetic diversity in E.blandingii but not co-occurring species. Recent climate change did not explain variability in either sex ratio or genetic diversity for any of the three species examined. Main conclusionsChanging land use has multiple impacts on turtle populations that are modulated by species-specific life history traits. Extensive terrestrial movements associated with nesting in E. blandingii increase female vulnerability to road mortality, which in turn has led to declines in genetic diversity. The predicted effects of recent climate change may have been dampened by behavioural plasticity. We suggest that the disproportionate effect of land use on E. blandingii warrants greater legal protection for this species.		[Reid, Brendan N.; Peery, M. Z.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Reid, Brendan N.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Forest & Wildlife Ecol, 1630 Linden Dr, Madison, WI 53706 USA								30							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000344589800007		
J	Xu, Guangjian; Zhong, Xiaoxiao; Wang, Yangfan; Warren, Alan; Xu, Henglong								An approach to determining functional parameters of microperiphyton fauna in colonization surveys for marine bioassessment based on rarefaction curves								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE AND POLLUTION RESEARCH				21	23			13461	13469		10.1007/s11356-014-3293-x			DEC 2014	2014	The functional parameters, i.e., the estimated equilibrium species number (S-eq), the colonization rate constant, and the time taken to reach 90 % of S-eq (T-90), of microperiphyton fauna have been widely used to determine the water quality status in aquatic ecosystems. The objective of this investigation was to develop a protocol for determining functional parameters of microperiphyton fauna in colonization surveys for marine bioassessment based on rarefaction and regression analyses. The temporal dynamics in species richness of microperiphyton fauna during the colonization period was analyzed based on a dataset of periphytic ciliates in Chinese coastal waters of the Yellow Sea. The results showed that (1) based on observed species richness and estimated maximum species numbers, a total of 16 glass slides were required in order to achieve coefficients of variation of <5 % in the functional parameters; (2) the rarefied average species richness and functional parameters showed weak sensitivity to sampling effort; (3) the temporal variations in average species richness were well-fitted to the MacArthur-Wilson model; and (4) the sampling effort of similar to 8 glass slides was sufficient to achieve coefficients of variation of <5 % in equilibrium average species number (AvS(eq)), colonization rate (AvG), and the time to reach 90 % of AvS(eq) (AvT(90)) based on the average species richness. The findings suggest that the AvS(eq), AvG, and AvT(90) values based on rarefied average species richness of microperiphyton might be used as reliable ecological indicators for the bioassessment of marine water quality in coastal habitats.		[Xu, Guangjian; Wang, Yangfan; Xu, Henglong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Zhong, Xiaoxiao] Ocean Univ China, Coll Fisheries, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China; [Warren, Alan] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Life Sci, London SW7 5BD, England; [Xu, Henglong] Ocean Univ China, Coll Marine Life Sci, Qingdao 266003, Peoples R China								2							Environmental Sciences	WOS:000345280200035		
J	Staab, Michael; Schuldt, Andreas; Assmann, Thorsten.; Bfuelheide, Helge; Klein, Alexandra-Maria								Ant community structure during forest succession in a subtropical forest in South-East China								ACTA OECOLOGICA-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				61				32	40		10.1016/j.actao.2014.10.003			NOV 2014	2014	Understanding how communities respond to environmental gradients is critical to predict responses of species to changing habitat conditions such as in regenerating secondary habitats after human land use. In this study, ground-living ants were sampled with pitfall traps in 27 plots in a heterogeneous and diverse subtropical forest to test if and how a broad set of environmental variables including elevation, successional age, and tree species richness influence ant diversity and community composition. In total, 13,441 ant individuals belonging to 71 species were found. Ant abundance was unrelated to all environmental variables. Rarefied ant species richness was negatively related to elevation, and Shannon diversity decreased with shrub cover. There was considerable variation in ant species amongst plots, associated with elevation, successional age, and variables related to succession such as shrub cover. It is shown that younger secondary forests may support a species-rich and diverse community of ants in subtropical forests even though the species composition between younger and older forests is markedly different. These findings confirm the conservation value of secondary subtropical forests, which is critical because subtropical forests have been heavily exploited by human activities globally. However, the findings also confirm that old-growth forest should have priority in conservation as it supports a distinct ant community. Our study identifies a set of ant species which are associated with successional age and may thus potentially assist local conservation planning. (C) 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.		[Staab, Michael; Klein, Alexandra-Maria] Univ Freiburg, Inst Earth & Environm Sci, Chair Nat Conservat & Landscape Ecol, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany; [Staab, Michael; Schuldt, Andreas; Assmann, Thorsten.; Klein, Alexandra-Maria] Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany; [Bfuelheide, Helge] Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Biol Geobot & Bot Garden, D-06108 Halle, Germany; [Bfuelheide, Helge] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; [Staab, Michael] Univ Freiburg, Inst Earth & Environm Sci, Chair Nat Conservat & Landscape Ecol, Tennenbacherstr 4, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany								18							Ecology	WOS:000345949100005		
J	Tanaka, Takayuki; Sato, Toshiyuki								Species richness of seed plants and ferns along a temperate elevational gradient in central Japan								PLANT ECOLOGY				215	11			1299	1311		10.1007/s11258-014-0388-x			NOV 2014	2014	We evaluated richness patterns of all vascular plants in central Japan with respect to spatial and climatic factors. This evaluation was performed by analysing a database that contained information on 150,806 herbarium specimens from this region. We analysed the area-corrected and rarefied species richness of all vascular plants, seed plants and ferns at 100-m elevational bands. The area-corrected species richness showed an asymmetric hump-shaped pattern for total and seed plants with a plateau in a higher elevation, whereas fern species richness showed a decreasing pattern. The rarefied species richness showed a low-plateau pattern in all cases because of the low threshold; however, species richness by rarefaction of specimens down to a higher threshold supported the area-corrected pattern. Thus, we concluded that total and seed plant richness showed a hump-shaped pattern, and that fern richness showed a decreasing pattern. Area, temperature and precipitation were significantly correlated with species richness, and climatic factors explained more variation in species richness of ferns compared with that of seed plants. When the species were divided based on range size, climatic factors explained more variation in small-ranged species richness than spatial factors, whereas spatial factors did so in large-ranged species richness. In addition, small-ranged species richness of seed plants showed a bimodal pattern with peaks at low elevation and high elevation probably because the mountains in central Japan play a role as refugia for Japanese alpine plants during climatic oscillations, or an artefact.		[Tanaka, Takayuki] Shinshu Univ, Interdisciplinary Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Mt & Environm Sci, Matsumoto, Nagano 3908621, Japan; [Sato, Toshiyuki] Shinshu Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol, Matsumoto, Nagano 3908621, Japan; [Tanaka, Takayuki] Shinshu Univ, Interdisciplinary Grad Sch Sci & Technol, Dept Mt & Environm Sci, 3-1-1 Asahi, Matsumoto, Nagano 3908621, Japan								10							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000344154400007		
J	Marra, Daniel Magnabosco; Chambers, Jeffrey Q.; Higuchi, Niro; Trumbore, Susan E.; Ribeiro, Gabriel H. P. M.; dos Santos, Joaquim; Negron-Juarez, Robinson I.; Reu, Bjoern; Wirth, Christian								Large-Scale Wind Disturbances Promote Tree Diversity in a Central Amazon Forest								PLOS ONE				9	8					e103711	10.1371/journal.pone.0103711			AUG 6 2014	2014	Canopy gaps created by wind-throw events, or blowdowns, create a complex mosaic of forest patches varying in disturbance intensity and recovery in the Central Amazon. Using field and remote sensing data, we investigated the shortterm (four-year) effects of large (>2000 m(2)) blowdown gaps created during a single storm event in January 2005 near Manaus, Brazil, to study (i) how forest structure and composition vary with disturbance gradients and (ii) whether tree diversity is promoted by niche differentiation related to wind-throw events at the landscape scale. In the forest area affected by the blowdown, tree mortality ranged from 0 to 70%, and was highest on plateaus and slopes. Less impacted areas in the region affected by the blowdown had overlapping characteristics with a nearby unaffected forest in tree density (583 +/- 46 trees ha(-1)) (mean +/- 699% Confidence Interval) and basal area (26.7 +/- 2.4 m(2) ha(-1)). Highly impacted areas had tree density and basal area as low as 120 trees ha(-1) and 14.9 m 2 ha(-1), respectively. In general, these structural measures correlated negatively with an index of tree mortality intensity derived from satellite imagery. Four years after the blowdown event, differences in size-distribution, fraction of resprouters, floristic composition and species diversity still correlated with disturbance measures such as tree mortality and gap size. Our results suggest that the gradients of wind disturbance intensity encompassed in large blowdown gaps (>2000 m(2)) promote tree diversity. Specialists for particular disturbance intensities existed along the entire gradient. The existence of species or genera taking an intermediate position between undisturbed and gap specialists led to a peak of rarefied richness and diversity at intermediate disturbance levels. A diverse set of species differing widely in requirements and recruitment strategies forms the initial post-disturbance cohort, thus lending a high resilience towards wind disturbances at the community level.		[Marra, Daniel Magnabosco; Reu, Bjoern; Wirth, Christian] Univ Leipzig, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Marra, Daniel Magnabosco; Trumbore, Susan E.; Wirth, Christian] Max Planck Inst Biogeochem, BGC Prozesse, D-07745 Jena, Germany; [Marra, Daniel Magnabosco; Chambers, Jeffrey Q.; Higuchi, Niro; Trumbore, Susan E.; Ribeiro, Gabriel H. P. M.; dos Santos, Joaquim] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Lab Manejo Florestal, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Chambers, Jeffrey Q.] Univ Calif Berkeley, Dept Geog, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Chambers, Jeffrey Q.; Negron-Juarez, Robinson I.] Univ Calif Berkeley, Lawrence Berkeley Natl Lab, Climate Sci Dept, Berkeley, CA 94720 USA; [Chambers, Jeffrey Q.; Negron-Juarez, Robinson I.] Tulane Univ, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, New Orleans, LA 70118 USA; [Wirth, Christian] German Ctr Integrat Biodivers Res iDiv, Leipzig, Germany; [Marra, Daniel Magnabosco] Univ Leipzig, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany								66							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000339995100028		
J	de Mendonca-Lima, Andre; Duarte, Leandro da Silva; Hartz, Sandra Maria								Comparing diversity and dispersal traits of tree communities in plantations and native forests in Southern Brazil								NATUREZA & CONSERVACAO				12	1			24	29		10.4322/natcon.2014.005			JUN 2014	2014	We investigated the richness, density, and composition of woody-tree species, and which traits of colonizing species are selected in commercial stands of Pinus elliottii and Araucaria angustifolia in southern Brazil. Analyses of variance with permutation tests were performed to assess differences among stand types in relation to density and rarefied richness. Multivariate analyses of variance with permutation tests were performed to compare stand types in relation to species composition and reproductive traits. Native forests presented higher stem density when compared to the plantations, while species richness did not vary among stand types. Species composition differed between the native forest and the plantations. Species reproductive traits differed between the two types of plantations. The higher frequency of zoochorous diaspores in P. elliottii plantations when compared to the other stand types suggests the importance of the fauna in creating and sustaining the understory structure in this type of plantation. Plantations show a high potential as colonization sites by native woody species, despite their structural differences in relation to native forests. If properly managed, plantations might be catalysts for the recovery of degraded areas. (C) 2014 Associacao Brasileira de Ciencia Ecologica e Conservacao. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda.		[de Mendonca-Lima, Andre; Duarte, Leandro da Silva; Hartz, Sandra Maria] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Hartz, Sandra Maria] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, Av Bento Goncalves,9500,Caixa Postal 15007, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								8							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000344906800005		
J	Robinson, Kelly F.; Jennings, Cecil A.								A Comparison of Resident Fish Assemblages in Managed and Unmanaged Coastal Wetlands in North Carolina and South Carolina								SOUTHEASTERN NATURALIST				13	2			237	260		10.1656/058.013.0207			JUN 2014	2014	The dominant fish species within impounded coastal wetlands in the southeastern US may be different from the species that dominate natural marshes. We tested the hypothesis that resident fish assemblages inhabiting impounded coastal wetlands in South Carolina would differ from resident assemblages in natural marshes of the southeastern United States. We used rarefied species richness, Shannon's H' diversity, J' evenness, Morisita's index of similarity, and the percent similarity index to compare resident fish assemblages from two impoundments to 12 open-marsh resident fish assemblages from previously published studies in North and South Carolina. We used rotenone to sample fish assemblages in impoundments. The assemblages in natural marsh habitat had been sampled with rotenone and seines. We classified comparisons yielding a similarity index >= 0.50 as moderately similar and those with an index >= 0.75 as very similar. Fifty-three percent of the among-impoundment comparisons (Morisita's index) were at least moderately similar, whereas 7% of impoundment-natural marsh comparisons were moderately similar. A difference in tidal influence was the only parameter in the best-fitting model describing the observed Morisita's indices. The index of similarity decreased by 63% when tidal influence differed between compared assemblages. Species richness and diversity were greater in impoundments than natural marshes, but evenness was similar between habitat types. Our results support the hypothesis that resident fish assemblages in impounded wetlands and natural marshes are different, and suggest that a degree of tidal influence is the most important factor behind the difference.		[Robinson, Kelly F.] Univ Georgia, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Georgia Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Jennings, Cecil A.] Univ Georgia, US Geol Survey, Georgia Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, Athens, GA 30602 USA; [Jennings, Cecil A.] Univ Georgia, US Geol Survey, Georgia Cooperat Fish & Wildlife Res Unit, Warnell Sch Forestry & Nat Resources, 180 East Green St, Athens, GA 30602 USA								4							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000342486800009		
J	Besacier-Monbertrand, Anne-Laure; Paillex, Amael; Castella, Emmanuel								SHORT-TERM IMPACTS OF LATERAL HYDROLOGICAL CONNECTIVITY RESTORATION ON AQUATIC MACROINVERTEBRATES								RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS				30	5			557	570		10.1002/rra.2597			JUN 2014	2014	In floodplain ecosystems, the lateral hydrological connectivity between the main river channel and the secondary channels plays a major role in shaping both the habitat conditions and the macroinvertebrate diversity. Among other threats, human activities tend to reduce the lateral connectivity, which increases floodplain terrestrialization and induces a loss of aquatic biodiversity. Consequently, the restoration of lateral connectivity is of growing concern. We studied four secondary channels of the Rhone floodplain that were subjected either to no restoration or to three different restoration measures (river flow increase only, flow increase plus dredging and flow increase plus reconnection to the river). Macroinvertebrate and environmental data were analysed one year before and during a period of five years after restoration. We expected a progressive increase of lateral connectivity according to the type of restoration. Changes in macroinvertebrate assemblages were predicted to be towards more rheophilic communities and proportionally related to the changes in lateral connectivity.In the reconnected channel, lateral connectivity increased and remained high fiveyears after restoration. In the dredged channel, the immediate increase of the lateral connectivity metric induced by sediment removal was followed by a rapid decrease. In the unrestored channel and the channel only influenced by flow increase, the metric remained constant in time. The macroinvertebrate composition and the rarefied EPT richness changes were proportionally related to the changes in lateral connectivity. Alien species richness and densities increased progressively in all channels after restoration. Our results showed that modifications of the lateral connectivity lead to predictable changes in macroinvertebrate diversity. Synergistic interactions between restoration and longer-term changes (e.g. climatic change, invasion of alien species) encourage long-term monitoring to assess the durability and trends of restoration measures. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		[Besacier-Monbertrand, Anne-Laure; Paillex, Amael; Castella, Emmanuel] Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Aquat Biol, Geneva, Switzerland; [Paillex, Amael] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Aquat Ecol Grp, Cambridge, England; [Besacier-Monbertrand, Anne-Laure] Univ Geneva, Inst FA Forel Earth & Environm Sci, ISE, 7 Route Drize, CH-1227 Carouge, Switzerland								24							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000337563000002		
J	Carper, Adrian L.; Adler, Lynn S.; Warren, Paige S.; Irwin, Rebecca E.								Effects of Suburbanization on Forest Bee Communities								ENVIRONMENTAL ENTOMOLOGY				43	2			253	262		10.1603/EN13078			APR 2014	2014	Urbanization is a dominant form of land-use change driving species distributions, abundances, and diversity. Previous research has documented the negative impacts of urbanization on the abundance and diversity of many groups of organisms. However, some organisms, such as bees, may benefit from moderate levels of development, depending on how development alters the availability of foraging and nesting resources. To determine how one type of low-intensity human development, suburbanization, affects bee abundance and diversity and the mechanisms involved, we surveyed bees across suburban and natural forests in the Raleigh-Durham area of North Carolina. We sampled for bees using a combination of bee bowls and hand-netting from March through July of 2008 and 2009. We found higher bee abundance in suburban than natural forests, and although observed species richness was greater in suburban than natural forests, there were no significant differences in rarefied richness or evenness estimates in either year. In addition, the effects of suburbanization were similar across bee species of varying ecological and life-history characteristics. At the local scale, bee abundance and species richness were both positively related to the abundance and richness of flowering species within forests, while the proportion of surrounding developed open areas, such as yards and roadsides, was a strong positive predictor of both bee abundance and richness at the landscape scale. These results suggest that open habitats and the availability of floral resources in suburban sites can support abundant and diverse bee communities and underscore the potential for native bee conservation in urban habitats.		[Carper, Adrian L.; Irwin, Rebecca E.] Dartmouth Coll, Dept Biol Sci, Hanover, NH 03755 USA; [Adler, Lynn S.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Biol, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Warren, Paige S.] Univ Massachusetts, Dept Environm Conservat, Amherst, MA 01003 USA; [Carper, Adrian L.] Univ Colorado, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Ramaley N122, Boulder, CO 80309 USA								32							Entomology	WOS:000337694500001		
J	Labaj, Andrew L.; Jeziorski, Adam; Kurek, Joshua; Smol, John P.								Long-term Trends in Cladoceran Assemblages Related to Acidification and Subsequent Liming of Middle Lake (Sudbury, Canada)								WATER AIR AND SOIL POLLUTION				225	3					1868	10.1007/s11270-014-1868-2			MAR 2014	2014	In the mid-20th century, similar to many lakes in the vicinity of Sudbury, Canada, Middle Lake was severely acidified due to nearby smelting operations. However, this lake is of particular interest because it was limed in 1973, and later fertilized as part of a restoration effort. Here, we use paleolimnological methods to track cladoceran assemblage responses to acidification, liming, and subsequent recovery in a similar to 250-year lake sediment record. Cladoceran assemblage changes, notably increases in Chydorus brevilabris, coincided with the late 1800s establishment of open-pit ore roasting in the region. As acidification progressed, the Daphnia pulex complex was replaced by the Daphnia longispina complex. At the height of acidification, and with similar timing to the liming, C. brevilabris increased abruptly in relative abundance in the sediment record, followed by a rapid decline. Invertebrate predation was investigated using Bosmina mucro length; however, no significant trends were evident. Our results suggest that complete biological recovery has not occurred. Specifically, species richness (rarefied) is similar to 64 % lower after the onset of acidification, and many rare species present prior to the onset of acidification have not yet returned to pre-impact levels despite dispersal events of these rare taxa being observed during contemporary zooplankton monitoring. Factors impeding the complete biological recovery of the cladocerans in Middle Lake may include biotic resistance, ongoing metal contamination, and a warming climate.		[Labaj, Andrew L.; Jeziorski, Adam; Kurek, Joshua; Smol, John P.] Queens Univ, Dept Biol, PEARL, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada; [Labaj, Andrew L.] Queens Univ, Dept Biol, PEARL, Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada								20							Environmental Sciences; Meteorology & Atmospheric Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000334577800003		
J	Palazzesi, L.; Barreda, V. D.; Cuitino, J. I.; Guler, M. V.; Telleria, M. C.; Santos, R. Ventura								Fossil pollen records indicate that Patagonian desertification was not solely a consequence of Andean uplift								NATURE COMMUNICATIONS				5						3558	10.1038/ncomms4558			MAR 2014	2014	The Patagonian steppe-a massive rain-shadow on the lee side of the southern Andes-is assumed to have evolved similar to 15-12 Myr as a consequence of the southern Andean uplift. However, fossil evidence supporting this assumption is limited. Here we quantitatively estimate climatic conditions and plant richness for the interval similar to 10-6 Myr based on the study and bioclimatic analysis of terrestrially derived spore-pollen assemblages preserved in well-constrained Patagonian marine deposits. Our analyses indicate a mesothermal climate, with mean temperatures of the coldest quarter between 11.4 degrees C and 16.9 degrees C (presently similar to 3.5 degrees C) and annual precipitation rarely below 661mm (presently similar to 200 mm). Rarefied richness reveals a significantly more diverse flora during the late Miocene than today at the same latitude but comparable with that approximately 2,000 km further northeast at mid-latitudes on the Brazilian coast. We infer that the Patagonian desertification was not solely a consequence of the Andean uplift as previously insinuated.		[Palazzesi, L.; Barreda, V. D.] Museo Argentino Ciencias Nat Bernardino Rivadavia, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Palazzesi, L.] Royal Bot Gardens, Jodrell Lab, Richmond TW9 3DS, Surrey, England; [Cuitino, J. I.] Univ Buenos Aires, Fac Ciencias Exactas & Nat, Dept Ciencias Geol, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina; [Guler, M. V.] Univ Nacl Sur, Dept Geol, RA-8000 Bahia Blanca, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Telleria, M. C.] Museo La Plata, Lab Sistemat & Biol Evolutiva LASBE, La Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina; [Santos, R. Ventura] Univ Brasilia, Inst Geociencias, BR-70910900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; [Palazzesi, L.] Museo Argentino Ciencias Nat Bernardino Rivadavia, Buenos Aires, DF, Argentina								69							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000334304600001		
J	Dal Grande, Francesco; Alors, David; Divakar, Pradeep K.; Balint, Miklos; Crespo, Ana; Schmitt, Imke								Insights into intrathalline genetic diversity of the cosmopolitan lichen symbiotic green alga <i>Trebouxia decolorans</i> Ahmadjian using microsatellite markers								MOLECULAR PHYLOGENETICS AND EVOLUTION				72				54	60		10.1016/j.ympev.2013.12.010			MAR 2014	2014	Trebouxia decolorans is a widespread and common symbiotic green alga that is found in association with different species of lichen-forming fungi. By applying T. decolorans-specific microsatellite markers, we investigated the within-thallus diversity of T. decolorans in thalli of Xanthoria parietina and Anaptychia ciliaris. We found several algal strains in most of the thalli of both hosts. High genetic differentiation among thalli suggests that algal diversity is generated de novo via mutation in both fungal hosts. Rarefied allelic richness of the algae was higher in thalli of X. parietina. Our results indicate that in X. parietina intrathalline algal diversity is additionally created by environmental uptake of algae either at the start of the symbiotic association or during the lifetime of the thallus. This study indicates that promiscuous host-symbiont associations in lichen symbioses with Trebouxia spp. may be more common than currently recognized. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.		[Dal Grande, Francesco; Balint, Miklos; Schmitt, Imke] Senckenberg Gesell Nat Forsch, Biodivers & Climate Res Ctr BiK F, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Alors, David; Divakar, Pradeep K.; Crespo, Ana] Univ Complutense Madrid, Fac Farm, Dept Biol Vegetal 2, E-28040 Madrid, Spain; [Schmitt, Imke] Goethe Univ Frankfurt, Inst Ecol Evolut & Div, D-60438 Frankfurt, Germany; [Dal Grande, Francesco] Senckenberg Gesell Nat Forsch, Biodivers & Climate Res Ctr, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany								37							Biochemistry & Molecular Biology; Evolutionary Biology; Genetics & Heredity	WOS:000331509400007		
J	Chao, Anne; Gotelli, Nicholas J.; Hsieh, T. C.; Sander, Elizabeth L.; Ma, K. H.; Colwell, Robert K.; Ellison, Aaron M.								Rarefaction and extrapolation with Hill numbers: a framework for sampling and estimation in species diversity studies								ECOLOGICAL MONOGRAPHS				84	1			45	67		10.1890/13-0133.1			FEB 2014	2014	Quantifying and assessing changes in biological diversity are central aspects of many ecological studies, yet accurate methods of estimating biological diversity from sampling data have been elusive. Hill numbers, or the effective number of species, are increasingly used to characterize the taxonomic, phylogenetic, or functional diversity of an assemblage. However, empirical estimates of Hill numbers, including species richness, tend to be an increasing function of sampling effort and, thus, tend to increase with sample completeness. Integrated curves based on sampling theory that smoothly link rarefaction (interpolation) and prediction (extrapolation) standardize samples on the basis of sample size or sample completeness and facilitate the comparison of biodiversity data. Here we extended previous rarefaction and extrapolation models for species richness (Hill number D-q, where q = 0) to measures of taxon diversity incorporating relative abundance (i.e., for any Hill number D-q, q > 0) and present a unified approach for both individual-based (abundance) data and sample-based (incidence) data. Using this unified sampling framework, we derive both theoretical formulas and analytic estimators for seamless rarefaction and extrapolation based on Hill numbers. Detailed examples are provided for the first three Hill numbers: q = 0 (species richness), q = 1 (the exponential of Shannon's entropy index), and q = 2 (the inverse of Simpson's concentration index). We developed a bootstrap method for constructing confidence intervals around Hill numbers, facilitating the comparison of multiple assemblages of both rarefied and extrapolated samples. The proposed estimators are accurate for both rarefaction and short-range extrapolation. For long-range extrapolation, the performance of the estimators depends on both the value of q and on the extrapolation range. We tested our methods on simulated data generated from species abundance models and on data from large species inventories. We also illustrate the formulas and estimators using empirical data sets from biodiversity surveys of temperate forest spiders and tropical ants.		[Chao, Anne; Hsieh, T. C.; Ma, K. H.] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan; [Gotelli, Nicholas J.; Sander, Elizabeth L.] Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Colorado, Museum Nat Hist, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Ellison, Aaron M.] Harvard Univ, Harvard Forest, Petersham, MA 01366 USA; [Chao, Anne] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan								2109							Ecology	WOS:000331215700004		
J	Feld, Christian K.; de Bello, Francesco; Doledec, Sylvain								Biodiversity of traits and species both show weak responses to hydromorphological alteration in lowland river macroinvertebrates								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				59	2			233	248		10.1111/fwb.12260			FEB 2014	2014	1. Lotic ecosystems worldwide are being increasingly modified hydromorphologically, for example, by damming, fragmentation, flow regulation and channel modification. Serious threats to riverine biodiversity are suspected, yet available field data are few and rarely address the various taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic components of biodiversity. 2. We examined benthic macroinvertebrate diversity along a gradient of hydromorphological alteration across 65 lowland river sites in the Netherlands, Germany and Poland. We calculated eight metrics describing taxonomic diversity (richness, rarefied richness, Shannon's and Simpson's diversity, Pielou's evenness), functional diversity (mean trait diversity) and phylogenetic diversity (mean taxonomic distinctness and its variance). 3. Threshold Indicator Taxa ANalysis (TITAN) and Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMS) showed detailed changes in taxonomic and trait composition, respectively, with increasing hydromorphological alteration. TITAN revealed a gradual turnover under increasing impact in which taxon losses were almost balanced by gains. NMS illustrated a high degree of concordance in the traits possessed by the taxa lost and gained at the gradient's end points. 4. Although a biologically meaningful hydromorphological gradient was evident, the biodiversity response was modest (Spearman's <|0.32| for all metrics). Pielou's evenness and mean taxonomic distinctness actually increased at impaired sites. 5. Our results suggest that taxonomic and trait replacement with hydromorphological alteration is not followed by changes in whole-community diversity. This implies some redundancy in these systems, with ecologically similar species replacing those lost through environmental change. 6. The results highlight how whole-community-based diversity, although frequently calculated and interpreted for decades in ecology and conservation biology, is not the all-purpose concept to detect and assess the various facets of biodiversity loss. Therefore, we suggest that concerted effort is needed to develop and test novel indicators of biodiversity, capable of detecting biodiversity loss, or other changes, in response to the main environmental stressors of lotic ecosystems.		[Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Fac Biol, Dept Aquat Ecol, D-45141 Essen, Germany; [Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Ctr Water & Environm Res ZWU, D-45141 Essen, Germany; [de Bello, Francesco] Acad Sci Czech Republ, Inst Bot, Trebon, Czech Republic; [de Bello, Francesco] Univ South Bohemia, Dept Bot, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [de Bello, Francesco] Univ South Bohemia, Fac Sci, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Doledec, Sylvain] Univ Lyon 1, UMR 5023, Lab Ecol Hydrosyst Nat & Anthropises, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Feld, Christian K.] Univ Duisburg Essen, Fac Biol, Dept Aquat Ecol, Univ Str 5, D-45141 Essen, Germany								78							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000329370800003		
J	Addo-Fordjour, P.; Rahmad, Z. B.; Shahrul, A. M. S.								Impacts of forest management on community assemblage and carbon stock of lianas in a tropical lowland forest, Malaysia								TROPICAL CONSERVATION SCIENCE				7	2			254	+					2014	2014	The study determined the impacts of different forest management regimes on liana community assemblages and carbon stocks in the Bukit Panchor Forest Reserve, Malaysia. Based on time span, two forests treated by the Malayan Uniform System (MUS), but with different time of recovery (19 years old: MUS-19 and 42 years old: MUS-42) were selected for this study. The MUS is a silvicultural treatment involving a single harvest of trees of stipulated diameter (>= 45 cm), followed by other silvicultural operations such as climber cutting. An untreated forest was added as a control. Lianas with diameter >= 2 cm were enumerated in ten 40 x 40 m(2) plots within each regime. Liana above-ground carbon stocks were determined using an allometric equation. Observed species richness and Shannon diversity of lianas were significantly lower in the MUS-19 treated forest than in the untreated forest (p<0.05), but the values of these attributes were similar in the MUS-42 treated and untreated forests. Rarefied liana species richness was significantly lower in the two treated forests than in the untreated forest (p<0.05). Liana stem basal area and carbon stock decreased significantly in the MUS-19 treated forest (p<0.05) relative to the untreated forest, whereas the values in the MUS-42 treated forest were similar to those in the untreated forest. In view of the adverse impacts of complete liana cutting on liana diversity, structure and carbon stocks in the treated forests, it is recommended that selective liana cutting be used in controlling lianas.		[Addo-Fordjour, P.; Rahmad, Z. B.; Shahrul, A. M. S.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Pulau Pinang Penang 11800, Malaysia; [Addo-Fordjour, P.] Kwame Nkrumah Univ Sci & Technol, Coll Sci, Dept Theoret & Appl Biol, Kumasi, Ghana; [Rahmad, Z. B.; Shahrul, A. M. S.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Ctr Marine & Coastal Studies CEMACS, George Town 11800, Penang, Malaysia; [Addo-Fordjour, P.] Univ Sains Malaysia, Sch Biol Sci, Pulau Pinang Penang 11800, Malaysia								9							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000347643500007		
J	Peter, Dorothea Hug; Castella, Emmanuel; Slaveykova, Vera I.								Effects of a reservoir flushing on trace metal partitioning, speciation and benthic invertebrates in the floodplain								ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE-PROCESSES & IMPACTS				16	12			2692	2702		10.1039/c4em00387j			2014	2014	Elimination of sediments from river reservoirs is a common management problem for hydroelectric power plants. Periodical flushing can have negative impacts downstream. This study investigated the impact of a flushing event on the physico-chemical changes in the downstream sections and on the consequences for the benthic macroinvertebrate community. A special emphasis was placed on trace metal fate, partitioning and speciation. The assessment of taxonomic diversity and the frequency of taxa with specific traits was used to estimate the impact on the macroinvertebrate community. Trace metals were measured in the dissolved and particulate fraction, in the surface sediment and in selected macroinvertebrates. Bioanalogical diffusive gradient thin films (DGT) complemented the approach. The results showed an increase of Al, Co, Mn and Ni in the dissolved fraction (M-dis). Cr-dis, Fe-dis, Pb-dis, and Cu-dis showed strong spatial variation. In the exchangeable fraction of particulate metals, trends were contrasted, depending on the metal. The calculated free ion and DGT concentrations increased during the flush for all metals, except for Cu. Accumulation in invertebrates increased only in a small number of cases. Macroinvertebrate diversity was negatively impacted as shown by lower taxonomic richness and rarefied richness after the event. Trait profiles were also affected. Overall, the study revealed that flushing operations have an impact on trace metal partitioning between dissolved, suspended particulate matter and sediments, metal speciation, as well as the functional invertebrate diversity.		[Peter, Dorothea Hug; Castella, Emmanuel; Slaveykova, Vera I.] Univ Geneva, Fac Sci Earth & Environm Sci, Inst FA Forel, CH-1290 Versoix, Switzerland; [Peter, Dorothea Hug; Castella, Emmanuel; Slaveykova, Vera I.] Univ Geneva, Inst Environm Sci, CH-1227 Carouge, Switzerland; [Slaveykova, Vera I.] Univ Geneva, Fac Sci Earth & Environm Sci, Inst FA Forel, Route Suisse 10, CH-1290 Versoix, Switzerland								15							Chemistry, Analytical; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000345454100003		
J	Ferenc Samu; Lengyel, Gabor; Szita, Eva; Andras Bidlo; Odor, Peter								The effect of forest stand characteristics on spider diversity and species composition in deciduous-coniferous mixed forests								JOURNAL OF ARACHNOLOGY				42	2			135	141		10.1636/CP13-75.1			2014	2014	We studied how forest stand characteristics influence spider assemblage richness and composition in a forested region of Hungary. Deciduous-coniferous mixed forests dominate in the Orseg National Park. Thirty-five plots were established and sampled for spiders for three years in 70-110 year-old stands with a continuum of tree species composition. Detailed background information was acquired for stand structure, tree species composition, forest-floor-related variables and spatial position of the plots. The effect of variables was analyzed by nonparametric multiplicative regression on rarefied spider species richness and by redundancy analysis on species composition. The relative importance of variable groups was assessed by variation partitioning. Spider species richness was positively and strongly affected by tree species richness, and the species composition of the spider assemblage was influenced by the proportion of the most important tree species. This study established the importance of tree species composition, but variance partitioning analysis also showed that tree species identity and forest floor variables together explain much of the variation. These findings may guide management and conservation efforts to maintain regional diversity of the spider fauna.		[Ferenc Samu; Lengyel, Gabor; Szita, Eva] Hungarian Acad Sci, Inst Plant Protect, Agr Res Ctr, Budapest, Hungary; [Andras Bidlo] Univ West Hungary, Dept Forest Site Diag & Classificat, Sopron, Hungary; [Odor, Peter] Hungarian Acad Sci, Ctr Ecol Res, Inst Ecol & Bot, Vacratot, Hungary; [Ferenc Samu] Hungarian Acad Sci, Inst Plant Protect, Agr Res Ctr, Budapest, Hungary								29							Entomology	WOS:000340578800001		
J	Schwartz, Steven J.; Zweibel, Ellen G.; Goldman, Martin								Microphysics in Astrophysical Plasmas								Space Science Series of ISSI				47				5	23		10.1007/978-1-4899-7413-6_2			2014	2014	Although macroscale features dominate astrophysical images and energetics, the physics is controlled through microscale transport processes (conduction, diffusion) that mediate the flow of mass, momentum, energy, and charge. These microphysical processes manifest themselves in key (all) boundary layers and also operate within the body of the plasma. Crucially, most plasmas of interest are rarefied to the extent that classical particle collision length- and time-scales are long. Collective plasma kinetic phenomena then serve to scatter or otherwise modify the particle distribution functions and in so-doing govern the transport at the microscale level. Thus collisionless plasmas are capable of supporting thin shocks, current sheets which may be prone to magnetic reconnection, and the dissipation of turbulence cascades at kinetic scales. This paper lays the foundation for the accompanying collection that explores the current state of knowledge in this subject. The richness of plasma kinetic phenomena brings with it a rich diversity of microphysics that does not always, if ever, simply mimic classical collision-dominated transport. This can couple the macro- and microscale physics in profound ways, and in ways which thus depend on the astrophysical context.		[Schwartz, Steven J.] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, Blackett Lab, London SW7 2AZ, England; [Zweibel, Ellen G.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Astron, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Goldman, Martin] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Schwartz, Steven J.] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, Blackett Lab, Prince Consort Rd, London SW7 2AZ, England								1							Astronomy & Astrophysics; Physics, Fluids & Plasmas	WOS:000337403300002		
J	Palmu, Erkki; Ekroos, Johan; Hanson, Helena I.; Smith, Henrik G.; Hedlund, Katarina								Landscape-scale crop diversity interacts with local management to determine ground beetle diversity								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				15	3			241	249		10.1016/j.baae.2014.03.001			2014	2014	Crop diversification and maintenance of semi-natural habitats (grasslands and field boundaries) are suggested to enhance farmland biodiversity, but the relative importance of these factors remains poorly known. We evaluated how crop diversity and availability of semi-natural grasslands at a landscape-scale interacted with local farming management (three management types from low to high intensity: ley < winter wheat < sugar beet) in their effect on ground beetle assemblages in southern Sweden. Ground beetle diversity increased with crop diversity either independently of local management (Simpson species diversity), or only in the less intensively managed habitats (rarefied species richness). While ground beetle diversity in leys tended to increase with field boundary length, no such relationship was observed in winter wheat or sugar beet fields. In contrast, the landscape proportions of leys and semi-natural grasslands did not affect ground beetle species richness and diversity. We conclude that (a) semi-natural grasslands and leys may not function as source habitats at a landscape-scale if they comprise a low proportion of the total land-use, while (b) increasing crop diversity is correlated to ground beetle richness and diversity in agricultural landscapes dominated by arable land. The beneficial effect of landscape-scale crop diversification on farmland biodiversity may depend on the general level of agricultural intensity of a region.		[Palmu, Erkki; Smith, Henrik G.; Hedlund, Katarina] Lund Univ, Dept Biol, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Ekroos, Johan; Hanson, Helena I.; Smith, Henrik G.; Hedlund, Katarina] Lund Univ, Ctr Environm & Climate Res, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Palmu, Erkki] Lund Univ, Dept Biol, Ecology Bldg, S-22362 Lund, Sweden								33							Ecology	WOS:000338606300006		
J	Sereda, Elvira; Blick, Theo; Dorow, Wolfgang H. O.; Wolters, Volkmar; Birkhofer, Klaus								Assessing spider diversity on the forest floor: expert knowledge beats systematic design								JOURNAL OF ARACHNOLOGY				42	1			44	51		10.1636/P13-16.1			2014	2014	The design of sampling schemes affects the results of biodiversity inventories. As an approach for quantifying the implications of such effects, we compared data on spider communities sampled in a beech-dominated forest floor habitat by 1) a regular grid of pitfall traps (systematic design) and 2) an expert-based distribution of traps (stratified design). We tested whether the two designs would lead to similar conclusions about the diversity and composition of ground-dwelling spider communities. Estimates of species richness, rarefied species richness and activity density calculated per trap were significantly higher in the stratified than in the systematic design. The community composition based on the presence or absence of sampled species or based on log-transformed activity densities differed significantly. Most of the dissimilarity between the community estimates of the two designs was attributable to three species, with Pardosa saltans Topfer-Hofmann 2000 being more common in traps of the stratified design and Tenuiphantes zimmermanni (Bertkau 1890) and Walckenaeria cuspidata Blackwall 1833 being more frequently observed in traps of the systematic design. Our study suggests that a stratified sampling design is better suited for inventory surveys of spider communities of forest-floor habitats, as trap locations of this design reflect specific habitat needs. It is important to note that inventories are a major field for the application of such designs and that greater care is needed for the application of inferential statistics. For example, the non-randomness that is caused by expert selection of sampling sites may violate fundamental assumptions of simple linear models.		[Sereda, Elvira; Wolters, Volkmar; Birkhofer, Klaus] Univ Giessen, D-35392 Giessen, Germany; [Blick, Theo; Dorow, Wolfgang H. O.] Senckenberg Gesell Nat Forsch, D-60325 Frankfurt, Germany; [Birkhofer, Klaus] Lund Univ, Dept Biol Biodivers & Conservat Sci, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Sereda, Elvira] Univ Giessen, Heinrich Buff Ring 26-32, D-35392 Giessen, Germany								11							Entomology	WOS:000335125900005		
J	Audino, Livia Dorneles; Louzada, Julio; Comita, Liza								Dung beetles as indicators of tropical forest restoration success: Is it possible to recover species and functional diversity?								BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION				169				248	257		10.1016/j.biocon.2013.11.023			JAN 2014	2014	Tropical forest restoration is becoming increasingly more applied to offset biodiversity loss and maintain ecosystem processes, but knowledge about its efficacy is still limited. We evaluated the success of tropical forest active restoration using dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeinae) as bioindicators and combining measures of species diversity, composition and functional diversity. We assessed patterns of dung beetles community assembly along a restoration chronosequence and also compared restoration areas with reference (primary and old secondary forest) and degraded (pasture) ecosystems. Species composition in the restoration areas was clearly progressing towards the preserved forests and deviating from the pasture with increasing restoration age. We also found a turnover of open environment specialists and habitat generalists to forest generalists and forest specialist species along the restoration chronosequence. However, the majority of individuals in the older restored habitats were typically forest generalists. Biomass was the only variable that increased with restoration age. Species richness, number of individuals, biomass and functional richness in the restored areas were similar to, or even smaller, than in pastures and substantially lower than forest reference sites. Rarefied richness, functional evenness and functional dispersion did not vary between the habitats. We found that while restored areas have the capacity to host forest-restricted species, 18 years since active restoration has not been long enough to recover a stable and diverse dung beetle assemblage. Our study also demonstrates that measures of composition, species diversity and functional diversity can complement each other and contribute to a better understanding of the efficacy of restoration practices. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Audino, Livia Dorneles] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Entomol, BR-37200000 Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Louzada, Julio] Univ Fed Lavras, Setor Ecol, Dept Biol, BR-37200000 Lavras, MG, Brazil; [Louzada, Julio] Univ Lancaster, Lancaster Environm Ctr, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, England; [Comita, Liza] Ohio State Univ, Dept Evolut Ecol & Organismal Biol, Columbus, OH 43210 USA; [Comita, Liza] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Balboa, Ancon, Panama; [Audino, Livia Dorneles] Univ Fed Lavras, Dept Entomol, Campus Univ,POB 3037, BR-37200000 Lavras, MG, Brazil								149							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000333574400028		
J	Pierri-Daunt, Ana Beatriz; Tanaka, Marcel O.								Assessing habitat fragmentation on marine epifaunal macroinvertebrate communities: an experimental approach								LANDSCAPE ECOLOGY				29	1			17	28		10.1007/s10980-013-9970-1			JAN 2014	2014	Habitat fragmentation is considered a major cause of biodiversity loss, both on terrestrial and marine environments. Understanding the effects of habitat fragmentation on the structure and dynamics of natural communities is extremely important to support management actions for biodiversity conservation. However, the effects of habitat fragmentation on marine communities are still poorly understood. Here we evaluated whether habitat fragmentation affects the structure of epifaunal communities in the sublittoral zone, in the northern coast of So Paulo state, Brazil. Five experimental landscapes were constructed, each one forming a large continuous patch. After 4 weeks, each landscape was cut on three patches of different sizes. Epifaunal macroinvertebrate communities were sampled at the edge and interior of experimental landscapes before manipulation to evaluate edge effects. After four more weeks, communities from the three patch sizes were also sampled to evaluate patch size effects. We compared the diversity of communities at different levels of fragmentation by total abundance, rarefied taxon richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity index, Simpson's dominance index, and abundance of dominant taxa. Higher taxon richness and gastropod abundance were recorded in the patch edges, but no significant differences were found among patch sizes. We found a significant effect of habitat fragmentation, with lower abundances of Gammaridea (the dominant taxon), Ophyuroidea, and Pycnogonida after the experimental fragmentation. Lower abundances of dominant taxa resulted in higher diversity and lower dominance in fragmented landscapes when compared to integral, pre-manipulation landscapes. Our results suggest that fragmentation of landscapes in the system studied can reduce dominance, and that even small patch sizes can be important for the conservation of macroinvertebrate diversity.		[Pierri-Daunt, Ana Beatriz] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Grad Program Ecol & Nat Resources, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Tanaka, Marcel O.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Dept Environm Sci DCAm, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Pierri-Daunt, Ana Beatriz] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Grad Program Ecol & Nat Resources, Rodovia Washington Luiz Km 235,CP 676, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								8							Ecology; Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000330827600002		
J	Milesi, Silvia Vendruscolo; Melo, Adriano Sanches								Conditional effects of aquatic insects of small tributaries on mainstream assemblages: position within drainage network matters								CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC SCIENCES				71	1			1	9		10.1139/cjfas-2013-0092			JAN 2014	2014	Tributaries may affect fauna in a mainstream by changing bottom substrate and increasing spatial heterogeneity. Additionally, we hypothesized that fauna in the mainstream may be affected by drifting migrants from tributaries. In nine stream networks, we sampled a similar microhabitat immediately upstream and downstream of two confluences. In each network, one confluence was located in the network centre and one in the periphery, and they were distinguished by low and high ratios of tributary size, respectively. We assessed whether the aquatic fauna at sites downstream from confluences was species-richer, distinct in composition and structure, and whether it included the fauna of upstream sites. We found that richness, rarefied richness, and abundance at downstream sites were not higher than at their upstream counterparts. Faunas at downstream sites were not nested subsets of those at upstream sites. Macroinvertebrate assemblage composition and structure differed between downstream and upstream sites in the peripheral confluences (high tributary to mainstream (T:M) ratios), but not in central confluences (low T:M ratios). Thus, effects of small tributaries on receiving mainstreams are dependent on the T:M ratio.		[Milesi, Silvia Vendruscolo] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Inst Biociencias, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Melo, Adriano Sanches] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Ecol, ICB, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Milesi, Silvia Vendruscolo] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Inst Biociencias, CP 15007, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								21							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000329217900001		
J	Adie, Hylton; Rushworth, Ian; Lawes, Michael J.								Pervasive, long-lasting impact of historical logging on composition, diversity and above ground carbon stocks in Afrotemperate forest								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				310				887	895		10.1016/j.foreco.2013.09.037			DEC 15 2013	2013	Understanding the rate and extent of forest recovery from major disturbance events enable forest managers to establish conservation priorities and allocate limited resources for their management. We examined the extent to which Afrotemperate forest has recovered from widespread, stand-levelling logging that followed the European settlement of south eastern South Africa approximately 150 years ago. We used plot-based tree census data to compare ecological characteristics (diversity, composition, structure) of primary, secondary and degraded Afrotemperate forests. Forests impacted by colonial logging events show no evidence of converging on the composition and above ground standing stock of old-growth forests. Primary forest canopies were dominated by two conifer species (Podocarpaceae) and a suite of long-lived pioneer angiosperms dominated the canopies of secondary forests. Old-growth canopy trees (>= 20 cm dbh) were taller (similar to 26 m vs similar to 16 m) and had broader girths (similar to 94 cm vs similar to 54 cm) compared with those in secondary forest. Canopy tree size differences translated to considerable (2 to 3-fold) differences in above ground carbon: we estimated that primary forest stores >240 Mg C ha(-1) compared with the range of 80.7-114.3 Mg C ha(-1) estimated for the two secondary forests and 84.3 Mg C ha(-1) for the degraded forest. Measures of rarefied species richness and diversity (Shannon exponential) were markedly lower for primary forest canopy trees, consistent with the proposition that the composition of Afrotemperate forests converges on podocarp dominance at the old-growth stage. In contrast, diversity measures for small (2.5-10.0 cm dbh) and medium (10.1-19.9 cm dbh) trees were noticeably higher in secondary and degraded forests indicating the considerable conservation value of these formerly disturbed forests. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Adie, Hylton] Univ KwaZulu Natal, Sch Life Sci, ZA-3209 Scottsville, South Africa; [Rushworth, Ian] Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, Ecol Advice Div, ZA-3202 Cascades, South Africa; [Lawes, Michael J.] Charles Darwin Univ, Res Inst Environm & Livelihoods, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia; [Lawes, Michael J.] Charles Darwin Univ, Res Inst Environm & Livelihoods, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia								20							Forestry	WOS:000330601000092		
J	Stevens, Richard D.								Gradients of Bat Diversity in Atlantic Forest of South America: Environmental Seasonality, Sampling Effort and Spatial Autocorrelation								BIOTROPICA				45	6			764	770		10.1111/btp.12056			NOV 2013	2013	Temperature seasonality has been proposed to be an important determinant of bat community structure in Atlantic Forest of South America and elsewhere. I characterized spatial and environmental patterns of species richness of phyllostomid bats in Atlantic Forest of South America and examined the degree to which temperature seasonality relative to other important environmental gradients was related to patterns of diversity across 60 heterogeneously sampled assemblages. I compared efficacy of different methods of accounting for inventory completeness (rarefaction, species estimation, minimum number of individuals and raw data) in characterizing gradients of bat diversity. I also compared levels of spatial autocorrelation generated by these methods and the degree to which such autocorrelation influenced results of regression analyses. Temperature seasonality was consistently the most important predictor of species richness across all methods of accounting for inventory completeness as well as between spatial and non-spatial regression methods. Spatial autocorrelation of both species richness and regression residuals was lowest for species richness estimators and highest for data rarefied to the highest sample sizes. Strong and characteristic environmental gradients typifying Atlantic Forest of South America translate into coincident gradients of richness of bat assemblages. Although data were characterized by heterogeneous sampling efforts, relationships of species richness with seasonality of temperature were strong and easily detectable. Methods of accounting for inventory completeness improve assessment with species richness estimators performing better than rarefaction methods.		Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; [Stevens, Richard D.] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA								43							Ecology	WOS:000326333400012		
J	Brehm, Gunnar; Strutzenberger, Patrick; Fiedler, Konrad								Phylogenetic diversity of geometrid moths decreases with elevation in the tropical Andes								ECOGRAPHY				36	11			1247	1253		10.1111/j.1600-0587.2013.00030.x			NOV 2013	2013	Species diversity of geometrid moths (Lepidoptera, Geometridae) has previously been shown to be extremely and constantly high along a continuously forested elevational gradient in the Andes of southern Ecuador. We analysed samples taken from 32 sites between 1999 and 2011 in northern Podocarpus National Park and adjacent areas from 1020 to 2916 m a.s.l. We conjecture that high elevation habitats were historically mostly colonised by species from lower elevations, and that environmental filtering (e.g. through host plant specificity or temperature tolerance) constrained colonisation from lower elevations, which would yield a pattern of elevationally decreasing phylogenetic diversity. We analysed elevational phylogenetic patterns by means of: 1) the nearest-taxon index (NTI), 2) DNA barcode-based terminal branch lengths (TBLs) from maximum-likelihood phylogeny, 3) the subfamily composition of the local assemblages, and 4), the rarefied number of morphologically defined genera per site. We counted a total of 1445 species. NTI values significantly increased with elevation, both in a conventional and a rarefaction approach. TBLs decreased significantly with elevation. Subfamily composition profoundly changed with elevation, particularly expressed as an increased proportion of the subfamily Larentiinae and decreased fractions of Sterrhinae and Geometrinae. The number of genera in equally rarefied species resamples significantly decreased with elevation. We conclude that environmental filtering indeed contributed to an altitudinal decrease in moth phylodiversity, but these constraints prevented only relatively few clades from colonising high elevation habitats.		[Brehm, Gunnar] Inst Spezielle Zool & Evolut Biol Mit Phyletische, DE-07743 Jena, Germany; [Strutzenberger, Patrick] Senckenberg Nat Hist Collect, DE-01109 Dresden, Germany; [Fiedler, Konrad] Univ Vienna, Dept Trop Ecol & Anim Biodivers, AU-1030 Vienna, Austria; [Brehm, Gunnar] Inst Spezielle Zool & Evolut Biol Mit Phyletische, Erbertstr 1, DE-07743 Jena, Germany								33							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000326327800011		
J	Yan Hui; Dong XinLiang; Feng Gang; Zhang ShouRen; Mucciardi, Anthony								Coarse root spatial distribution determined using a ground-penetrating radar technique in a subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest, China								SCIENCE CHINA-LIFE SCIENCES				56	11			1038	1046		10.1007/s11427-013-4560-7			NOV 2013	2013	Coarse roots play a critical role in forest ecosystems and both abiotic and biotic factors affect their spatial distribution. To some extent, coarse root density may reflect the quantity of root biomass and biotic competition in forests. However, using traditional methods (e.g., excavation) to study coarse roots is challenging, because those methods are time-consuming and laborious. Furthermore, these destructive methods cannot be repeated in the same forests. Therefore, the discovery of non-destructive methods for root studies will be very significant. In this study, we used a ground-penetrating radar technique to detect the coarse root density of three habitats (ridge, slope and valley) and the dominant tree species (Castanopsis eyrei and Schima superba) in a subtropical forest. We found that (i) the mean of coarse root density for these three habitats was 88.04 roots m(-2), with roots being mainly distributed at depths of 0-40 cm. Coarse root densities were lower in deeper soils and in areas far from the trunk. (ii) Coarse root densities differed significantly among the three habitats studied here with slope habitat having the lowest coarse root density. Compared with S. superba, C. eyrei had more roots distributed in deeper soils. Furthermore, coarse roots with a diameter > 3 cm occurred more frequently in the valleys, compared with root densities in ridge and slope habitats, and most coarse roots occurred at soil depths of 20-40 cm. (iii) The coarse root density correlated negatively with tree species richness at soil depths of 40-60 cm. The abundances of the dominant species, such as C. eyrei, Cyclobalanopsis glauca, Pinus massoniana, had significant impacts on coarse root density. (iv) The soil depth of 0-40 cm was the "basic distribution layer" for coarse roots since the majority of coarse roots were found in this soil layer with an average root density of 84.18 roots m(-2), which had no significant linear relationships with topography, tree species richness, rarefied tree species richness and tree density. Significant relationships between coarse root density and these factors were found at the soil depth of 40-60 cm, which was the "potential distribution layer" for coarse root distribution.		[Yan Hui; Dong XinLiang; Feng Gang; Zhang ShouRen] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Bot, State Key Lab Vegetat & Environm Change, Beijing 100093, Peoples R China; [Yan Hui; Dong XinLiang; Feng Gang] Univ Chinese Acad Sci, Beijing 100049, Peoples R China; [Yan Hui] Inner Mongolia Forestry Monitoring & Planning Aca, Hohhot 010020, Peoples R China; [Mucciardi, Anthony] TreeRadar Inc, Silver Spring, MD 20910 USA; [Zhang ShouRen] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Bot, State Key Lab Vegetat & Environm Change, Beijing 100093, Peoples R China								11							Biology	WOS:000326813300009		
J	Jones, N. E.								PATTERNS OF BENTHIC INVERTEBRATE RICHNESS AND DIVERSITY IN THE REGULATED MAGPIE RIVER AND NEIGHBOURING NATURAL RIVERS								RIVER RESEARCH AND APPLICATIONS				29	9			1090	1099		10.1002/rra.2595			NOV 2013	2013	Fluctuating flows common in hydropeaking operations present biota with contrasting and challenging environments. Taxa that require a narrow range of water velocity or are not adapted to withstand sudden changes in discharge will likely be eliminated or competitively disadvantaged under such circumstances, perhaps leading to reduced biodiversity. I investigated the whole river, longitudinal and lateral patterns of benthic invertebrate abundance, Shannon-Wiener diversity, and rarefied taxa density and richness in the hydropeaking Magpie River and 16 neighbouring natural rivers. The Magpie River had greater abundances of benthic invertebrates than natural rivers, particularly near the dam. General differences in benthic community characteristics were largely based on the near absence of Odonata and Plecoptera and an abundance of snails and worms in the Magpie River. Family density, richness and diversity were greater in the regulated Magpie River and unregulated upper Magpie River than found in natural rivers. Longitudinally, family density, diversity and particularly richness increased downstream in the Magpie River. Laterally, diversity did not show any trends with increasing depth along transects, except at near the dam where it decreased sharply with depth, velocity, and an abundance of filter feeding invertebrates. Taxa density did not show any lateral trends in natural rivers, whereas in the Magpie River, it increased with water velocity and depth. The results of this study are contradictory to the general findings of others implying reduced biodiversity below hydropower facilities. Possible explanations are examined and contrasted with other examinations of benthic invertebrate response below hydropeaking dams. (c) Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada 2012.		Trent Univ, Ontario Minist Nat Resources, River & Stream Ecol Lab, Peterborough, ON K9J 7B8, Canada; [Jones, N. E.] Trent Univ, Ontario Minist Nat Resources, River & Stream Ecol Lab, 2140 East Bank Dr, Peterborough, ON K9J 7B8, Canada								12							Environmental Sciences; Water Resources	WOS:000325823900003		
J	Thongsripong, Panpim; Green, Amy; Kittayapong, Pattamaporn; Kapan, Durrell; Wilcox, Bruce; Bennett, Shannon								Mosquito Vector Diversity across Habitats in Central Thailand Endemic for Dengue and Other Arthropod-Borne Diseases								PLOS NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES				7	10					e2507	10.1371/journal.pntd.0002507			OCT 2013	2013	Recent years have seen the greatest ecological disturbances of our times, with global human expansion, species and habitat loss, climate change, and the emergence of new and previously-known infectious diseases. Biodiversity loss affects infectious disease risk by disrupting normal relationships between hosts and pathogens. Mosquito-borne pathogens respond to changing dynamics on multiple transmission levels and appear to increase in disturbed systems, yet current knowledge of mosquito diversity and the relative abundance of vectors as a function of habitat change is limited. We characterize mosquito communities across habitats with differing levels of anthropogenic ecological disturbance in central Thailand. During the 2008 rainy season, adult mosquito collections from 24 sites, representing 6 habitat types ranging from forest to urban, yielded 62,126 intact female mosquitoes (83,325 total mosquitoes) that were assigned to 109 taxa. Female mosquito abundance was highest in rice fields and lowest in forests. Diversity indices and rarefied species richness estimates indicate the mosquito fauna was more diverse in rural and less diverse in rice field habitats, while extrapolated estimates of true richness (Chao1 and ACE) indicated higher diversity in the forest and fragmented forest habitats and lower diversity in the urban. Culex sp. (Vishnui subgroup) was the most common taxon found overall and the most frequent in fragmented forest, rice field, rural, and suburban habitats. The distributions of species of medical importance differed significantly across habitat types and were always lowest in the intact, forest habitat. The relative abundance of key vector species, Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus, was negatively correlated with diversity, suggesting that direct species interactions and/or habitat-mediated factors differentially affecting invasive disease vectors may be important mechanisms linking biodiversity loss to human health. Our results are an important first step for understanding the dynamics of mosquito vector distributions under changing environmental features across landscapes of Thailand.		[Thongsripong, Panpim] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Trop Med Med Microbiol & Pharmacol, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Thongsripong, Panpim; Bennett, Shannon] Calif Acad Sci, Dept Microbiol, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA; [Green, Amy] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Microbiol, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Kittayapong, Pattamaporn; Wilcox, Bruce] Mahidol Univ Salaya, Ctr Excellence Vectors & Vector Borne Dis, Fac Sci, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand; [Kapan, Durrell] Calif Acad Sci, Dept Entomol, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA; [Kapan, Durrell] Calif Acad Sci, Ctr Comparat Genom, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA; [Kapan, Durrell] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Ctr Conservat Res Training, Pacific Biosci Res Ctr, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA; [Wilcox, Bruce] Mahidol Univ, Fac Publ Hlth, Integrat Res & Educ Program, Bangkok 10700, Thailand; [Wilcox, Bruce] Khon Kaen Univ, Trop Dis Res Lab, Fac Med, Khon Kaen, Thailand; [Thongsripong, Panpim] Univ Hawaii Manoa, Dept Trop Med Med Microbiol & Pharmacol, Honolulu, HI 96822 USA								82							Infectious Diseases; Parasitology; Tropical Medicine	WOS:000330376500040		
J	Schwartz, Steven J.; Zweibel, Ellen G.; Goldman, Martin								Microphysics in Astrophysical Plasmas								SPACE SCIENCE REVIEWS				178	2-4			81	99		10.1007/s11214-013-9975-8			OCT 2013	2013	Although macroscale features dominate astrophysical images and energetics, the physics is controlled through microscale transport processes (conduction, diffusion) that mediate the flow of mass, momentum, energy, and charge. These microphysical processes manifest themselves in key (all) boundary layers and also operate within the body of the plasma. Crucially, most plasmas of interest are rarefied to the extent that classical particle collision length- and time-scales are long. Collective plasma kinetic phenomena then serve to scatter or otherwise modify the particle distribution functions and in so-doing govern the transport at the microscale level. Thus collisionless plasmas are capable of supporting thin shocks, current sheets which may be prone to magnetic reconnection, and the dissipation of turbulence cascades at kinetic scales. This paper lays the foundation for the accompanying collection that explores the current state of knowledge in this subject. The richness of plasma kinetic phenomena brings with it a rich diversity of microphysics that does not always, if ever, simply mimic classical collision-dominated transport. This can couple the macro- and microscale physics in profound ways, and in ways which thus depend on the astrophysical context.		[Schwartz, Steven J.] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, Blackett Lab, London SW7 2AZ, England; [Zweibel, Ellen G.] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Astron, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Goldman, Martin] Univ Colorado, Dept Phys, Boulder, CO 80309 USA; [Schwartz, Steven J.] Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, Blackett Lab, Prince Consort Rd, London SW7 2AZ, England								7							Astronomy & Astrophysics	WOS:000326110700002		
J	Diehl, Eva; Mader, Viktoria L.; Wolters, Volkmar; Birkhofer, Klaus								Management intensity and vegetation complexity affect web-building spiders and their prey								OECOLOGIA				173	2			579	589		10.1007/s00442-013-2634-7			OCT 2013	2013	Agricultural management and vegetation complexity affect arthropod diversity and may alter trophic interactions between predators and their prey. Web-building spiders are abundant generalist predators and important natural enemies of pests. We analyzed how management intensity (tillage, cutting of the vegetation, grazing by cattle, and synthetic and organic inputs) and vegetation complexity (plant species richness, vegetation height, coverage, and density) affect rarefied richness and composition of web-building spiders and their prey with respect to prey availability and aphid predation in 12 habitats, ranging from an uncut fallow to a conventionally managed maize field. Spiders and prey from webs were collected manually and the potential prey were quantified using sticky traps. The species richness of web-building spiders and the order richness of prey increased with plant diversity and vegetation coverage. Prey order richness was lower at tilled compared to no-till sites. Hemipterans (primarily aphids) were overrepresented, while dipterans, hymenopterans, and thysanopterans were underrepresented in webs compared to sticky traps. The per spider capture efficiency for aphids was higher at tilled than at no-till sites and decreased with vegetation complexity. After accounting for local densities, 1.8 times more aphids were captured at uncut compared to cut sites. Our results emphasize the functional role of web-building spiders in aphid predation, but suggest negative effects of cutting or harvesting. We conclude that reduced management intensity and increased vegetation complexity help to conserve local invertebrate diversity, and that web-building spiders at sites under low management intensity (e.g., semi-natural habitats) contribute to aphid suppression at the landscape scale.		[Diehl, Eva; Mader, Viktoria L.; Wolters, Volkmar] Univ Giessen, Dept Anim Ecol, D-35392 Giessen, Germany; [Birkhofer, Klaus] Lund Univ, Dept Biol Biodivers & Conservat Sci, S-22362 Lund, Sweden; [Diehl, Eva] Univ Giessen, Dept Anim Ecol, Heinrich Buff Ring 26-32, D-35392 Giessen, Germany								90							Ecology	WOS:000325028500023		
J	Suganuma, Marcio Seiji; de Assis, Geissianny Bessao; Galvao de Melo, Antnio Carlos; Durigan, Giselda								REFERENCE ECOSYSTEMS FOR RIPARIAN FOREST RESTORATION: ARE THERE ANY PATTERNS OF BIODIVERSITY, FOREST STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONAL TRAITS?								REVISTA ARVORE				37	5			835	847		10.1590/S0100-67622013000500006			SEP-OCT 2013	2013	The use of natural ecosystems as a goal to be achieved and the selection of indicators to evaluate restoration success are controversial issues in both Science and practice of ecosystem restoration. Four remnants of riparian vegetation were assessed in the region of Seasonally Semideciduous Forest in order to verify if some attributes of this plant community varied among sites and if they could be used as reference for this region. Ten plots of 100 m(2) were established in each site and woody plants with height >= 50 cm, separated in upper stratum (dbh >= 5 cm) and lower stratum (dbh < 5 cm), and classified by functional traits, rarity and status in red lists. Terrestrial ferns, lianas and trees with epiphytes were all accounted. Density (in both layers, and trees with epiphythes), basal area, and canopy cover did not differ among areas. Rarefied richness and total estimated richness, as well as the proportion of species by dispersal syndrome, shade tolerance, growth rhythm, and rarity follow a regional pattern, which can be considered as reference for riparian forests in this ecological region. Whether or not these values can be used as restoration goals depends on: 1) long term assessment of restoration success, and 2) scientific evidence that restored ecosystems can reach such values.		[Suganuma, Marcio Seiji] Univ Sao Paulo, Escola Engn Sao Carlos, Ctr Recursos Hidr & Ecol Aplicada, BR-05508 Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Galvao de Melo, Antnio Carlos; Durigan, Giselda] Inst Florestal Estado Sao Paulo, Secretaria Meio Ambiente, Sao Paulo, Brazil; [Suganuma, Marcio Seiji] Univ Sao Paulo, Escola Engn Sao Carlos, Ctr Recursos Hidr & Ecol Aplicada, BR-05508 Sao Paulo, Brazil								8							Forestry	WOS:000329052000006		
J	Koenig, Rodrigo; Santos, Sandro								Chironomidae (Insecta: Diptera) of different habitats and microhabitats of the Vacacai-Mirim River microbasin, Southern Brazil								ANAIS DA ACADEMIA BRASILEIRA DE CIENCIAS				85	3			975	985		10.1590/S0001-37652013000300010			SEP 2013	2013	The Chironomidae family is one of the main groups of aquatic insects present in streams. This work aimed to investigate the influences of anthropogenic pressures and substrate types on chironomid community composition and structure, Chironomid larvae were collected during the summer of 2007 at four sites along the Varacai-Mirim River microbasin, chosen based on the different available benthic substrates. The organisms were identified in the laboratory at the genus level, and the density, the rarefied taxonomic richness and the Shannon diversity index were calculated. The faunal structure was subjected to an ANOVA to compare the metrics among sites and substrates. The community composition of the sites was subjected to a multivariate statistical analysis. Differences in the composition, richness, density. and diversity were observed among the sites due to differences in the levels of nutrients and solids generated by the presence of crops close to water bodies. Samples collected from sandy substrates exhibited a lower density and taxonomic richness because sand is a poorer substrate than the others that were sampled. In organic or mixed substrates with higher energy availability and better shelter conditions, the observed densities were higher. The physical and chemical conditions and the morphometric characteristics of the sites were more influential than the substrates.		[Koenig, Rodrigo] Inst Fed Farroupilha, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-98130000 Julio De Castilhos, RS, Brazil; [Santos, Sandro] Univ Fed Santa Maria, Dept Biol, PPG Biodiversidade Anim, BR-97105900 Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; [Koenig, Rodrigo] Inst Fed Farroupilha, Dept Ciencias Biol, Campus Julio de Castilhos,Rodovia RS 527,S-N, BR-98130000 Julio De Castilhos, RS, Brazil								10							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000324948400014		
J	Nipperess, David A.; Matsen, Frederick A.								The mean and variance of phylogenetic diversity under rarefaction								METHODS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION				4	6			566	572		10.1111/2041-210X.12042			JUN 2013	2013	Phylogenetic diversity (PD) depends on sampling depth, which complicates the comparison of PD between samples of different depth. One approach to dealing with differing sample depth for a given diversity statistic is to rarefy, which means to take a random subset of a given size of the original sample. Exact analytical formulae for the mean and variance of species richness under rarefaction have existed for some time, but no such solution exists for PD. We have derived exact formulae for the mean and variance of PD under rarefaction. We confirm that these formulae are correct by comparing exact solution mean and variance to that calculated by repeated random (Monte Carlo) subsampling of a data set of stem counts of woody shrubs of Toohey Forest, Queensland, Australia. We also demonstrate the application of the method using two examples: identifying hot spots of mammalian diversity in Australasian ecoregions and characterizing the human vaginal microbiome. There is a very high degree of correspondence between the analytical and random subsampling methods for calculating mean and variance of PD under rarefaction, although the Monte Carlo method requires a large number of random draws to converge on the exact solution for the variance. Rarefaction of mammalian PD of ecoregions in Australasia to a common standard of 25 species reveals very different rank orderings of ecoregions, indicating quite different hot spots of diversity than those obtained for unrarefied PD. The application of these methods to the vaginal microbiome shows that a classical score used to quantify bacterial vaginosis is correlated with the shape of the rarefaction curve. The analytical formulae for the mean and variance of PD under rarefaction are both exact and more efficient than repeated subsampling. Rarefaction of PD allows for many applications where comparisons of samples of different depth are required.		[Nipperess, David A.] Macquarie Univ, Fac Sci, Dept Biol Sci, N Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia; [Matsen, Frederick A.] Fred Hutchinson Canc Res Ctr, Computat Biol Program, Seattle, WA 98109 USA; [Matsen, Frederick A.] Fred Hutchinson Canc Res Ctr, Computat Biol Program, 1100 Fairview Ave N,Mail Stop M1-B514, Seattle, WA 98109 USA								40							Ecology	WOS:000320117200008		
J	Chase, Jonathan M.; Knight, Tiffany M.								Scale-dependent effect sizes of ecological drivers on biodiversity: why standardised sampling is not enough								ECOLOGY LETTERS				16				17	26		10.1111/ele.12112			MAY 2013	2013	There is little consensus about how natural (e.g. productivity, disturbance) and anthropogenic (e.g. invasive species, habitat destruction) ecological drivers influence biodiversity. Here, we show that when sampling is standardised by area (species density) or individuals (rarefied species richness), the measured effect sizes depend critically on the spatial grain and extent of sampling, as well as the size of the species pool. This compromises comparisons of effects sizes within studies using standard statistics, as well as among studies using meta-analysis. To derive an unambiguous effect size, we advocate that comparisons need to be made on a scale-independent metric, such as Hurlbert's Probability of Interspecific Encounter. Analyses of this metric can be used to disentangle the relative influence of changes in the absolute and relative abundances of individuals, as well as their intraspecific aggregations, in driving differences in biodiversity among communities. This and related approaches are necessary to achieve generality in understanding how biodiversity responds to ecological drivers and will necessitate a change in the way many ecologists collect and analyse their data.		[Chase, Jonathan M.] Biodivers Synth Lab, St Louis, MO 63105 USA; [Knight, Tiffany M.] Washington Univ, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO 63130 USA; [Chase, Jonathan M.] Biodivers Synth Lab, St Louis, MO 63105 USA								218							Ecology	WOS:000319006400003		
J	Franssen, N. R.; Tobler, M.								Upstream effects of a reservoir on fish assemblages 45-years following impoundment								JOURNAL OF FISH BIOLOGY				82	5			1659	1670		10.1111/jfb.12108			MAY 2013	2013	Fish assemblage structure, rarefied species richness, species diversity and evenness of assemblages upstream of a reservoir in Oklahoma, U.S.A., were compared pre and post-impoundment as well as in contemporary collections from streams above and below the reservoir. There were significant shifts in assemblage structure between historical and contemporary collections above the reservoir but not between contemporary assemblages above and below the impoundment. Indicator species analysis revealed that the sand shiner Notropis stramineus and fathead minnow Pimephales promelas have declined, whereas largemouth bass Micropterus salmoides and western mosquitofish Gambusia affinis have increased in relative abundance in assemblages upstream of the impoundment. Species richness was lower in contemporary assemblages compared with historical assemblages. Furthermore, contemporary assemblages below the dam had lower species richness, diversity and evenness compared with contemporary collections above the dam. These results highlight the spatial and temporal extent of reservoirs altering fish assemblages upstream of impoundments.		[Franssen, N. R.; Tobler, M.] Univ Oklahoma, Dept Zool, Norman, OK 73019 USA; [Franssen, N. R.] Univ New Mexico, Dept Biol, 167 Castetter Hall, Albuquerque, NM 87131 USA								18							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000318442100014		
J	Meehan, Timothy D.; Glassberg, Jeffrey; Gratton, Claudio								Butterfly community structure and landscape composition in agricultural landscapes of the central United States								JOURNAL OF INSECT CONSERVATION				17	2			411	419		10.1007/s10841-012-9523-y			APR 2013	2013	Agricultural landscapes worldwide are under increased pressure to provide food, feed, fiber, and fuel for a growing human population. These demands are leading to changes in agricultural landscapes and subsequent declines in biodiversity. We used citizen science data from the North American Butterfly Association and remotely-sensed land cover data from the US Department of Agriculture to study relationships between agricultural landscape composition and butterfly community structure in the Midwestern US. Landscape-level butterfly species richness (based on rarefaction estimates) was highest in agricultural landscapes with relatively low amounts of cropland, relatively high amounts of woodland, and intermediate amounts of grassland and wetland. Rarefied richness generally declined with the dominance of any of these land cover types. Unlike other land cover types, urban development had a consistent negative effect on rarefied richness. Butterfly community structure (based on relative abundance) was also significantly related to the amount of cropland, woodland, grassland, and wetland in the landscape. The rarest butterfly species were associated with woodland-, grassland-, and wetland-dominated landscapes, likely due to their association with plant species occurring in savannahs, prairies, and marshes, respectively. Assuming that variation across space reflects changes over time, our results support conclusions from previous studies that removal of natural and seminatural habitats alters butterfly community structure and decreases species diversity in agricultural landscapes.		[Meehan, Timothy D.; Gratton, Claudio] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Great Lakes Bioenergy Res Ctr, Dept Entomol, Madison, WI 53706 USA; [Glassberg, Jeffrey] North Amer Butterfly Assoc, Morristown, NJ 07960 USA; [Meehan, Timothy D.] Univ Wisconsin Madison, Great Lakes Bioenergy Res Ctr, Dept Entomol, Madison, WI 53706 USA								17							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000316335900019		
J	Ellis, Beth; Johnson, Kirk R.								COMPARISON OF LEAF SAMPLES FROM MAPPED TROPICAL AND TEMPERATE FORESTS: IMPLICATIONS FOR INTERPRETATIONS OF THE DIVERSITY OF FOSSIL ASSEMBLAGES								PALAIOS				28	3-4			163	177		10.2110/palo.2012.p12-073r			MAR-APR 2013	2013	We characterize forest floor leaf litter and transported leaf samples from several depositional environments in both a temperate and a tropical forest to provide well-characterized modern analogs for the evaluation of fossil leaf localities. We compare the low-diversity, deciduous, temperate Wharton Brook forest (Connecticut, United States) with the high-diversity, evergreen, tropical Noah Creek Rainforest (Queensland, Australia) by mapping one half-hectare of each forest, collecting 25-29 leaf litter samples from four to five depositional settings in each forest and analyzing the relative abundance of species based on >31,750 leaves. In both studies, we analyze the samples as if they were fossil sites, evaluating floral composition, numerical diversity measures, rarefied richness, and climate estimates based on leaf physiognomy. We compare this analysis with data from the standing mapped forest to evaluate the biases inherent in the data derived from fossil assemblages from different depositional settings. In both forests, sample sites that were revisited over multiple years produced different species on subsequent visits, suggesting that fossil sites with close stratigraphic spacing and different composition may actually represent the same source forest. In both forests, species diversity in laterally transported samples appears to increase as the distance of transport increases. Because the species richness of a leaf sample is impacted by the diversity of the original forest, the amount of time the leaf sample spent accumulating, and the effect of transport distance, it is not possible to interpret the diversity of ancient forests without also evaluating the sedimentary facies of the fossil collections.		[Ellis, Beth] Denver Museum Nat & Sci, Denver, CO 80205 USA; [Johnson, Kirk R.] Natl Museum Nat Hist, Washington, DC 20013 USA; [Ellis, Beth] Denver Museum Nat & Sci, 2001 Colorado Blvd, Denver, CO 80205 USA								29							Geology; Paleontology	WOS:000320679100003		
J	Geissler, Christian; Nadrowski, Karin; Kuehn, Peter; Baruffol, Martin; Bruelheide, Helge; Schmid, Bernhard; Scholten, Thomas								Kinetic Energy of Throughfall in Subtropical Forests of SE China - Effects of Tree Canopy Structure, Functional Traits, and Biodiversity								PLOS ONE				8	2					e49618	10.1371/journal.pone.0049618			FEB 15 2013	2013	Throughfall kinetic energy (TKE) plays an important role in soil erosion in forests. We studied TKE as a function of biodiversity, functional diversity as well as structural stand variables in a secondary subtropical broad-leaved forest in the Gutianshan National Nature Reserve (GNNR) in south-east China, a biodiversity hotspot in the northern hemisphere with more than 250 woody species present. Using a mixed model approach we could identify significant effects of all these variables on TKE: TKE increased with rarefied tree species richness and decreased with increasing proportion of needle-leaved species and increasing leaf area index (LAI). Furthermore, for average rainfall amounts TKE was decreasing with tree canopy height whereas for high rainfall amounts this was not the case. The spatial pattern of throughfall was stable across several rain events. The temporal variation of TKE decreased with rainfall intensity and increased with tree diversity. Our results show that more diverse forest stands over the season have to cope with higher cumulative raindrop energy than less diverse stands. However, the kinetic energy (KE) of one single raindrop is less predictable in diverse stands since the variability in KE is higher. This paper is the first to contribute to the understanding of the ecosystem function of soil erosion prevention in diverse subtropical forests.		[Geissler, Christian; Kuehn, Peter; Scholten, Thomas] Univ Tubingen, Inst Geog, Tubingen, Germany; [Nadrowski, Karin] Univ Leipzig, D-04109 Leipzig, Germany; [Baruffol, Martin; Schmid, Bernhard] Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Studies, Zurich, Switzerland; [Bruelheide, Helge] Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Biol Geobot, D-06108 Halle, Germany; [Bruelheide, Helge] Univ Halle Wittenberg, Bot Garden, D-06108 Halle, Germany; [Geissler, Christian] Univ Tubingen, Inst Geog, Tubingen, Germany								35							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000315603700002		
J	Suga, Cristiane M.; Tanaka, Marcel O.								Influence of a forest remnant on macroinvertebrate communities in a degraded tropical stream								HYDROBIOLOGIA				703	1			203	213		10.1007/s10750-012-1360-1			FEB 2013	2013	Land use changes have resulted in large environmental impacts, and in agricultural landscapes sometimes only forest fragments remain. Riparian forest remnants can positively influence stream water quality, and serve as refuges for aquatic species. We evaluated whether the presence of a riparian forest remnant influenced the structure and composition of macroinvertebrate communities in a rural stream in southeastern Brazil. We sampled three reaches upstream (within abandoned sugarcane cultivation) and nine downstream the remnant edge, until 600 m inside the forested area, using leaf litter bags. The abundances of Elmidae, Chironomidae, and total macroinvertebrates increased along the forest remnant, whereas the abundance of Baetidae, proportion of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT), rarefied taxonomic richness, and diversity decreased. Taxon richness and EPT abundance did not vary along the forest remnant. Increases in Chironomidae and total abundance within the forest remnant can be related to moderate increases in nutrient concentrations, or to the availability of high quality leaf litter patches. Forest remnants can influence macroinvertebrate communities, although variation both in temperate and tropical studies can be related to local agricultural practices and land use at the watershed scale. Forest remnants are important in maintaining stream water quality in rural landscapes, and deserve attention in watershed management projects.		[Tanaka, Marcel O.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Dept Ciencias Ambientais DCAm, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Suga, Cristiane M.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Recursos Nat, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Tanaka, Marcel O.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos UFSCar, Dept Ciencias Ambientais DCAm, CP 676,Rodovia Washington Luiz Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								28							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000312782000015		
J	Weber, Kristina; Zuschin, Martin								Delta-associated molluscan life and death assemblages in the northern Adriatic Sea: Implications for paleoecology, regional diversity and conservation								PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY				370				77	91		10.1016/j.palaeo.2012.11.021			JAN 15 2013	2013	Life-death (LD) studies of shelly macrofauna are important to evaluate how well a fossil assemblage can reflect the original living community, but can also serve as a proxy for recent ecological shifts in marine habitats and in practice this has to be distinguished using taphonomic preservation pattern and estimates of time-averaging. It remains to be rigorously evaluated, however, how to distinguish between sources of LD disagreement. In addition, death assemblages (DAs) also preserve important information on regional diversity which is not available from single censuses of the life assemblages (LAs). The northern Adriatic Sea is an ecosystem under anthropogenic pressure, and we studied the distribution and abundance of living and dead bivalve and gastropod species in the physically stressful environments (tidal flat and shallow sublittoral soft bottoms) associated with the delta of the Isonzo River (Gulf of Trieste). Specifically we evaluated the fidelity of richness, evenness, abundance, habitat discrimination and beta diversity. A total of 10,740 molluscs from fifteen tidal flat and fourteen sublittoral sites were analyzed for species composition and distribution of of living and dead molluscs. Of 78 recorded species, only eleven were numerically abundant. There were many more dead than living individuals and rarefied species richness in the DA was higher at all spatial scales, but the differences are lower in habitats and in the region than at individual stations. Evenness was always higher in death assemblages, and probably due to temporally more variable LAs the differences are stronger in the sublittoral habitats. Distinct assemblages characterized intertidal and sublittoral habitats, and the distribution and abundance of empty shells generally corresponded to that of the living species. Death assemblages have lower beta diversity than life assemblages, but empty shells capture compositional differences between habitats to a higher degree than living shells. More samples would be necessary to account for the diversity of living molluscs' in the study area, which is, however, well recorded in the death assemblages. There is no indication of a major environmental change over the last decades in this area, but due to the long history of anthropogenic pressure here, such a potential impact might be preserved in historical layers of the deeper sedimentary record. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Weber, Kristina; Zuschin, Martin] Univ Vienna, Dept Palaeontol, A-1090 Vienna, Austria; [Zuschin, Martin] Univ Vienna, Dept Palaeontol, Althanstr 14, A-1090 Vienna, Austria								39							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Paleontology	WOS:000315762100007		
J	Perez-Bilbao, A.; Benetti, C. J.; Garrido, J.								COMMUNITY VARIATION IN PROTECTED COASTAL LAGOONS USING AQUATIC INSECT ASEMBLAGES								VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT				63	3-4			145	157					2013	2013	Coastal lagoons are high productivity ecosystems with high biodiversity, but very unstable systems. When assessing the ecological status of these ecosystems it is necessary to consider the influence of natural variations. In order to understand the community variation of coastal lagoons we studied spatial (among-lagoons) and temporal (among-years) changes in aquatic insect assemblages and variations in 23 measures potentially useful for bioindication purposes. Two series of data were examined: (a) aquatic insect families and (b) Coleoptera and Hemiptera species. Coefficients of variation were used to quantify the effect of among-lagoon and interannual variability on the selected metrics. Data analyses showed that within-lagoon variation (temporal) was higher than among-lagoon variation (spatial). Both aquatic insect families and Coleoptera and Hemiptera species provided similar information about among-lagoon similarity. According to the results, taxa richness, rarefied richness (ES200), species richness of Coleoptera and Hemiptera (%S CH), the Margalef diversity index (d), and richness and abundance of predators could be the most useful metrics when assessing ecological status in these coastal lagoons. Diversity metrics and fauna composition may be used together for a better understanding of the diversity patterns in these ecosystems.		[Perez-Bilbao, A.; Benetti, C. J.; Garrido, J.] Univ Vigo, Fac Biol, Ecol & Anim Biol Dept, Campus Lagoas Marcosende, Vigo 36310, Spain; [Perez-Bilbao, A.] Univ Vigo, Fac Biol, Ecol & Anim Biol Dept, Campus Lagoas Marcosende, Vigo 36310, Spain								1							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000343787300004		
J	Saito, Victor S.; Mazao, Gustavo R.								Macroinvertebrates under stochastic hydrological disturbance in Cerrado streams of Central Brazil								IHERINGIA SERIE ZOOLOGIA				102	4			448	452		10.1590/S0073-47212012005000008			DEC 30 2012	2012	In the Cerrado vegetation, where the seasonal is well defined, rainfall has an important role in controlling the flow of streams and consequently on the structure of macroinvertebrates community. Despite the effects of rainfall associated with seasonality are well studied, little is known about the effects of stochastic rains on the community. In the present study we evaluated the structure and faunal composition of four first-order streams in Central Brazil during the dry season in two years, with and without stochastic rains. Community sampling was done by colonization of boards of high density polyethylene (HDPE), removed after one month submerged in streams. Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) performed indicated no difference in rarefied richness between the two periods, different from numeric density of organisms that was higher in the period without disturbance; moreover, the Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) revealed differences in faunal composition between the two periods. Our results indicate that stochastic rainfall is an important factor in structuring the macroinvertebrates community in studied region.		[Saito, Victor S.; Mazao, Gustavo R.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Recursos Nat, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil; [Saito, Victor S.] Univ Fed Sao Carlos, Ctr Ciencias Biol & Saude, Programa Posgrad Ecol & Recursos Nat, Rod Washington Luis,Km 235, BR-13565905 Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil								2							Zoology	WOS:000314238800011		
J	van Rooijen, Johan								Estimating the snake species richness of the Santubong Peninsula (Borneo): a computer-simulation								AMPHIBIA-REPTILIA				33	3-4			521	525		10.1163/15685381-00002844			DEC 2012	2012	The snake species richness of the Santubong Peninsula, Sarawak, Borneo, has been estimated previously by fitting a Weibull model to the rarefied species accumulation curve. In the present study, the estimation procedure was simulated in order to shed more light on its validity, i.e. its accuracy and precision. First, the estimate was updated on the basis of an additional, small-scale, survey carried out in 2011. Subsequently, survey-data were used to construct a simulation database. Twenty samples were randomly drawn from this database. Each sample was transformed into a rarefied species accumulation curve to which a Weibull model was fitted. For comparison, various related models were fitted as well. All applied models resulted in a downwardly biased estimate. The Weibull model performed best, providing the estimate of species richness with the smallest bias and thus highest accuracy. As for the precision of the estimate, a rather wide confidence interval was established.		Netherlands Ctr Biodivers Nat, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands; [van Rooijen, Johan] Netherlands Ctr Biodivers Nat, POB 9517, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands								1							Zoology	WOS:000312228000019		
J	Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Dilcher, David L.; Jaramillo, Carlos A.; Fortini, Lucas B.; Manchester, Steven R.								PALYNOLOGICAL COMPOSITION OF A LOWER CRETACEOUS SOUTH AMERICAN TROPICAL SEQUENCE: CLIMATIC IMPLICATIONS AND DIVERSITY COMPARISONS WITH OTHER LATITUDES								AMERICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY				99	11			1819	1827		10.3732/ajb.1200135			NOV 2012	2012	Premise of the study: Reconstruction of floristic patterns during the early diversification of angiosperms is impeded by the scarce fossil record, especially in tropical latitudes. Here we collected quantitative palynological data from a stratigraphic sequence in tropical South America to provide floristic and climatic insights into such tropical environments during the Early Cretaceous. Methods: We reconstructed the floristic composition of an Aptian-Albian tropical sequence from central Colombia using quantitative palynology (rarefied species richness and abundance) and used it to infer its predominant climatic conditions. Additionally, we compared our results with available quantitative data from three other sequences encompassing 70 floristic assemblages to determine latitudinal diversity patterns. Key results: Abundance of humidity indicators was higher than that of aridity indicators (61% vs. 10%). Additionally, we found an angiosperm latitudinal diversity gradient (LDG) for the Aptian, but not for the Albian, and an inverted LDG of the overall diversity for the Albian. Angiosperm species turnover during the Albian, however, was higher in humid tropics. Conclusions: There were humid climates in northwestern South America during the Aptian-Albian interval contrary to the widespread aridity expected for the tropical belt. The Albian inverted overall LDG is produced by a faster increase in per-sample angiosperm and pteridophyte diversity in temperate latitudes. However, humid tropical sequences had higher rates of floristic turnover suggesting a higher degree of morphological variation than in temperate regions.		[Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Manchester, Steven R.] Univ Florida, Florida Museum Nat Hist, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Manchester, Steven R.] Univ Florida, Dept Biol, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.; Jaramillo, Carlos A.] STRI, Panama City, Panama; [Dilcher, David L.] Indiana Univ, Dept Geol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Dilcher, David L.] Indiana Univ, Dept Biol, Bloomington, IN 47405 USA; [Fortini, Lucas B.] US Geol Survey, Pacific Isl Ecosyst Res Ctr, PICCC, Honolulu, HI 96813 USA; [Mejia-Velasquez, Paula J.] Univ Florida, Florida Museum Nat Hist, POB 117800, Gainesville, FL 32611 USA								16							Plant Sciences	WOS:000311579700020		
J	Fiedler, Konrad; Truxa, Christine								Species richness measures fail in resolving diversity patterns of speciose forest moth assemblages								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				21	10			2499	2508		10.1007/s10531-012-0311-5			SEP 2012	2012	We used data from a light-trapping study at 28 sites on floodplain forest moths in eastern Austria to assess the performance of a variety of species richness and species diversity measures. At each site the data (32,181 individuals from 448 species) contain a large fraction of species represented only as singletons. Sampling effort was evenly spread across sites, but sampling success varied greatly. Influx of moths from the landscape matrix surrounding floodplain forest patches lead to substantial proportions of stray individuals from the regional species pool. Under these conditions, observed species numbers as well as eight extrapolation estimators of species totals failed to reflect differences between three study regions or between flooded and non-flooded forest habitats. Rarefied species numbers and Fisher's alpha of the log-series distribution captured differences in moth diversity between regions, but failed to mirror flooding impact. Only Shannon's diversity captured all expected diversity differences, at high significance levels. Application of Chao and Shen's bias correction increased figures of Shannon's diversity, but did not affect the outcome of statistical comparisons. We conclude that for species-rich incompletely sampled communities of highly mobile insects the evaluation of the complete species-abundance information using Shannon's diversity is the most promising mode to compare local species diversity with a high degree of ecological resolution. Species richness measures apart from those obtained through rarefaction cannot be recommended, as they are sensitive to sources of bias that pertain to many empirical sets of field data.		[Fiedler, Konrad; Truxa, Christine] Univ Vienna, Dept Trop Ecol & Anim Biodivers, A-1030 Vienna, Austria; [Fiedler, Konrad] Univ Vienna, Dept Trop Ecol & Anim Biodivers, Rennweg 14, A-1030 Vienna, Austria								17							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000307533100006		
J	Specziar, A.; Takacs, P.; Czegledi, I.; Eros, T.								The role of the electrofishing equipment type and the operator in assessing fish assemblages in a non-wadeable lowland river								FISHERIES RESEARCH				125				99	107		10.1016/j.fishres.2012.02.014			AUG 2012	2012	The wider the spatial and temporal scales of a fish survey are the higher the chance that the methodology will vary, most probably in the configuration of the sampling equipment or the composition of the crew. It is important to know how these changes affect data quality. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of the differences both in the electrofisher equipment type (low power, battery powered vs. high power, generator supplied units) and in the operators when assessing fish assemblages in a non-wadeable lowland river in Hungary. We found that compared to the superior effect of "natural" spatio-temporal heterogeneity, pure methodological factors accounted for a low or moderate (<15%) part of the variance in fish data. The most commonly measured assemblage level variables, such as rarefied species richness, similarity based assemblage composition (i.e. presence/absence) and relative abundance data were the most insensitive to changing the equipment type and/or the operator. However, the shared effect of methodological and spatio-temporal factors was important in shaping CPUE data and mean fish size of some species, suggesting that the sensitivity of these variables to methodological variations can vary in space and time. We concluded that in systems with high spatio-temporal heterogeneity, the relative importance of the herein investigated methodological bias is likely to remain within an acceptable range. Thence, in studies examining large-scale ecological patterns over wide range of habitats and/or large areas, some flexibility in the methodology may be a reasonable compromise in favor of sampling more sites and increasing effort. Nevertheless, if any change in the methodology is indispensable, at least its effect on sample quality should be assessed. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Specziar, A.; Takacs, P.; Eros, T.] Hungarian Acad Sci, Balaton Limnol Inst, Ctr Ecol Res, H-8237 Tihany, Hungary; [Czegledi, I.] Univ Debrecen, Dept Hydrobiol, H-4032 Debrecen, Hungary; [Specziar, A.] Hungarian Acad Sci, Balaton Limnol Inst, Ctr Ecol Res, Klebelsberg K U 3, H-8237 Tihany, Hungary								11							Fisheries	WOS:000304849100011		
J	Hepp, Luiz U.; Landeiro, Victor L.; Melo, Adriano S.								Experimental Assessment of the Effects of Environmental Factors and Longitudinal Position on Alpha and Beta Diversities of Aquatic Insects in a Neotropical Stream								INTERNATIONAL REVIEW OF HYDROBIOLOGY				97	2			157	167		10.1002/iroh.201111405			MAY 2012	2012	We evaluated the effect of environmental factors on the abundance and genera richness of aquatic insects colonizing artificial substrates. We also assessed the relative effects of environmental factors on assemblage variation (beta diversity), and contrasted its magnitude with the variation associated with the spatial position of reaches in a Neotropical stream. Homogeneous and heterogeneous bricks were installed in seven stream reaches and removed after 60d. Substrate type and organic matter showed significant effects on abundance. For observed richness, substrate type was the only important variable. For rarefied richness, no explanatory variable was important. A NMDS ordination of bricks revealed the effect of spatial position and substrate type. A partial Redundancy Analysis (pRDA) indicated that the environmental matrix explained 12.44% of the total variation, while reach position explained 7.41%. We conclude that at local scale (reaches 430920 m apart), environmental factors, especially substrate heterogeneity, were important in determining the alpha and beta diversities of the insect assemblage in the stream ((c) 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim)		[Hepp, Luiz U.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Hepp, Luiz U.] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-99700000 Erechim, RS, Brazil; [Landeiro, Victor L.] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Programa Posgrad Ecol, BR-69011970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Melo, Adriano S.] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Dept Ecol, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Hepp, Luiz U.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Programa Posgrad Ecol, Av Bento Goncalves 9500,CP 15007, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								33							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000303238200007		
J	Leray, Matthieu; Beraud, Maxime; Anker, Arthur; Chancerelle, Yannick; Mills, Suzanne C.								<i>Acanthaster planci</i> Outbreak: Decline in Coral Health, Coral Size Structure Modification and Consequences for Obligate Decapod Assemblages								PLOS ONE				7	4					e35456	10.1371/journal.pone.0035456			APR 17 2012	2012	Although benthic motile invertebrate communities encompass the vast majority of coral reef diversity, their response to habitat modification has been poorly studied. A variety of benthic species, particularly decapods, provide benefits to their coral host enabling them to cope with environmental stressors, and as a result benefit the overall diversity of coral-associated species. However, little is known about how invertebrate assemblages associated with corals will be affected by global perturbations, (either directly or indirectly via their coral host) or their consequences for ecosystem resilience. Analysis of a ten year dataset reveals that the greatest perturbation at Moorea over this time was an outbreak of the corallivorous sea star Acanthaster planci from 2006 to 2009 impacting habitat health, availability and size structure of Pocillopora spp. populations and highlights a positive relationship between coral head size and survival. We then present the results of a mensurative study in 2009 conducted at the end of the perturbation (A. planci outbreak) describing how coral-decapod communities change with percent coral mortality for a selected coral species, Pocillopora eydouxi. The loss of coral tissue as a consequence of A. planci consumption led to an increase in rarefied total species diversity, but caused drastic modifications in community composition driven by a shift from coral obligate to non-obligate decapod species. Our study highlights that larger corals left with live tissue in 2009, formed a restricted habitat where coral obligate decapods, including mutualists, could subsist. We conclude that the size structure of Pocillopora populations at the time of an A. planci outbreak may greatly condition the magnitude of coral mortality as well as the persistence of local populations of obligate decapods.		[Leray, Matthieu; Beraud, Maxime; Mills, Suzanne C.] Univ Perpignan, CBETM, USR CRIOBE CNRS EPHE 3278, Lab Excellence CORAIL, F-66025 Perpignan, France; [Anker, Arthur] Univ Fed Ceara, Lab Ciencias Mar Labomar, Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil; [Chancerelle, Yannick] CRIOBE, USR CRIOBE CNRS EPHE 3278, Lab Excellence CORAIL, Moorea, France; [Leray, Matthieu] Univ Perpignan, CBETM, USR CRIOBE CNRS EPHE 3278, Lab Excellence CORAIL, F-66025 Perpignan, France								37							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000305347400053		
J	Gerisch, Michael; Agostinelli, Veronica; Henle, Klaus; Dziock, Frank								More species, but all do the same: contrasting effects of flood disturbance on ground beetle functional and species diversity								OIKOS				121	4			508	515		10.1111/j.1600-0706.2011.19749.x			APR 2012	2012	The role of habitat disturbance on biodiversity is central as it promotes changes in ecological systems. That said, still little is known about the functional consequences of such changes. Functional diversity can be used to revealing more mechanistically the disturbance effects on communities by considering the richness and the distribution of traits among the species. Here we analyzed the response of functional and species diversity of ground beetles to flood disturbance to better understand the functioning of alluvial invertebrate communities. Ground beetles were sampled in periodically flooded grasslands along the Elbe River in Germany. We used generalized linear mixed effects models to unveil the relationships between flood disturbance, species and functional diversity, respectively. We measured different components of functional diversity (functional richness, evenness, dispersion, and divergence) and analyzed species diversity by means of rarefied species richness, abundances, evenness and Simpson's diversity. We found contrasting relationships in that most species diversity measures peaked at highest disturbance levels, while most functional diversity measures decreased with increasing disturbance intensities. Inversed relationships between species and functional diversity are rarely observed, as most studies report on positive correlations. We explain increasing species diversity with a higher amount of resources available in highly disturbed sites. Decreasing functional diversity is best explained through the convergence of species traits by flood disturbance and uneven resource exploitation in highly disturbed plots (low functional evenness), suggesting strong impacts from functionally different generalist species in floodchannels. We show that the amount of resources available, and how these resources are exploited, play major roles in the functioning of floodplain ground beetle communities.		[Gerisch, Michael; Henle, Klaus] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Conservat Biol, DE-04318 Leipzig, Germany; [Agostinelli, Veronica; Dziock, Frank] Tech Univ Berlin, Inst Ecol, Dept Biodivers Dynam, Sekretariat AB1, DE-12165 Berlin, Germany; [Gerisch, Michael] UFZ Helmholtz Ctr Environm Res, Dept Conservat Biol, Permoserstr 15, DE-04318 Leipzig, Germany								136							Ecology	WOS:000301537200004		
J	Nawrot, Rafal								DECOMPOSING LITHIFICATION BIAS: PRESERVATION OF LOCAL DIVERSITY STRUCTURE IN RECENTLY CEMENTED STORM-BEACH CARBONATE SANDS, SAN SALVADOR ISLAND, BAHAMAS								PALAIOS				27	3-4			190	205		10.2110/palo.2011.p11-028r			MAR-APR 2012	2012	Lithification with related diagenetic phenomena is an important step in a complex transition from living communities to fossil assemblages and a major taphonomic filter distorting the record of past biodiversity. Apart from direct diagenetic culling of fossils, cementation of fossiliferous deposits induces changes in sampling procedures used to extract paleontological data. This study explores the effects of this methodological shift on recorded fine-scale paleoecological patterns by using subfossil mollusk assemblages occurring in the unlithified and recently cemented storm-beach carbonate sands at Sand Dollar Beach, San Salvador Island, Bahamas, which experienced limited diagenetic alteration. Results show that consistent differences in relative abundance patterns of particular taxa can be observed between unlithified and lithified samples due to collection failure. Magnitude of this distortion is controlled in a large part by a degree of transport-related size sorting, with well-sorted assemblages dominated by small gastropods being more affected. This bias, however, is of limited importance and can be mitigated by selective exclusion of the smallest size classes (<5 mm) from the analysis. Moreover, unlithified and poorly lithified deposits record very similar rarefied richness estimates and patterns of diversity partitioning. This contrasts strongly with earlier estimates of lithification-related diversity loss, suggesting greater importance of diagenetic over methodological filters in creating lithification bias observed in the older rock record. Poorly Milled carbonate rocks-present in many late Neogene successions-may yield biodiversity data directly comparable to those recorded by unlithified sediments if careful collecting methods based on bulk samples are employed.		Univ Warsaw, Fac Geol, Inst Geol, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland; [Nawrot, Rafal] Univ Warsaw, Fac Geol, Inst Geol, Al Zwirki & Wigury 93, PL-02089 Warsaw, Poland								10							Geology; Paleontology	WOS:000304337800007		
J	Curry, Colin J.; Zhou, Xin; Baird, Donald J.								Congruence of biodiversity measures among larval dragonflies and caddisflies from three Canadian rivers								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				57	3			628	639		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02724.x			MAR 2012	2012	1. Scientists tasked with collecting taxon richness and assemblage variation data for conservation purposes have identified biomonitoring studies as potential sources of information. This approach assumes that biodiversity patterns revealed by biomonitoring reflect those of the wider community, an assumption not thoroughly tested in riverine ecosystems. 2. We compared patterns of taxon richness and assemblage variation in an important biomonitoring group (Trichoptera) with a group with high conservation significance (Odonata) at 34 sites across three fifth-order catchments. We also explored the effect of abundance on observed patterns by rarefying the larval Trichoptera data set. 3. Our results indicate that Trichoptera do not fully reflect site-scale taxon richness or assemblage variation in Odonata. The magnitude of odonate assemblage variation was much greater than that of Trichoptera for one of the catchments. Odonata and Trichoptera richness was moderately correlated in two catchments, while assemblage variation was strongly correlated in another pair of catchments. However, comparisons based on rarefied data eliminated differences in the magnitude of assemblage variation and strengthened correlations in richness and assemblage variation, suggesting the lack of congruence in these measures might be due to differences in abundance among groups. Further, incomplete taxonomy may mask additional assemblage variation, particularly in Trichoptera. 4. Conservation planning in riverine ecosystems based on proxies derived from biomonitoring data should proceed cautiously until we understand how well the resulting information reflects biodiversity patterns in under-sampled taxa and habitats. Future studies of biodiversity congruence should consider both richness and assemblage variation as each provides valuable information for conservation-related decisions. The taxonomic resolution and relative abundance of comparison groups can potentially impact the strength, direction and statistical significance of patterns. Researchers should employ species-level taxonomy and account for differences in abundance among groups through rarefaction where at all possible and DNA-based taxonomy methods can support this.		[Curry, Colin J.; Baird, Donald J.] Univ New Brunswick, Canadian Rivers Inst, Dept Biol, Environm Canada, Fredericton, NB E3B 5A3, Canada; [Zhou, Xin] BGI, Shenzhen, Peoples R China; [Curry, Colin J.] Univ New Brunswick, Canadian Rivers Inst, Dept Biol, Environm Canada, POB 4400, Fredericton, NB E3B 5A3, Canada								14							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000299102000016		
J	Colwell, Robert K.; Chao, Anne; Gotelli, Nicholas J.; Lin, Shang-Yi; Mao, Chang Xuan; Chazdon, Robin L.; Longino, John T.								Models and estimators linking individual-based and sample-based rarefaction, extrapolation and comparison of assemblages								JOURNAL OF PLANT ECOLOGY				5	1			3	21		10.1093/jpe/rtr044			MAR 2012	2012	In ecology and conservation biology, the number of species counted in a biodiversity study is a key metric but is usually a biased underestimate of total species richness because many rare species are not detected. Moreover, comparing species richness among sites or samples is a statistical challenge because the observed number of species is sensitive to the number of individuals counted or the area sampled. For individual-based data, we treat a single, empirical sample of species abundances from an investigator-defined species assemblage or community as a reference point for two estimation objectives under two sampling models: estimating the expected number of species (and its unconditional variance) in a random sample of (i) a smaller number of individuals (multinomial model) or a smaller area sampled (Poisson model) and (ii) a larger number of individuals or a larger area sampled. For sample-based incidence (presence-absence) data, under a Bernoulli product model, we treat a single set of species incidence frequencies as the reference point to estimate richness for smaller and larger numbers of sampling units. The first objective is a problem in interpolation that we address with classical rarefaction (multinomial model) and Coleman rarefaction (Poisson model) for individual-based data and with sample-based rarefaction (Bernoulli product model) for incidence frequencies. The second is a problem in extrapolation that we address with sampling-theoretic predictors for the number of species in a larger sample (multinomial model), a larger area (Poisson model) or a larger number of sampling units (Bernoulli product model), based on an estimate of asymptotic species richness. Although published methods exist for many of these objectives, we bring them together here with some new estimators under a unified statistical and notational framework. This novel integration of mathematically distinct approaches allowed us to link interpolated (rarefaction) curves and extrapolated curves to plot a unified species accumulation curve for empirical examples. We provide new, unconditional variance estimators for classical, individual-based rarefaction and for Coleman rarefaction, long missing from the toolkit of biodiversity measurement. We illustrate these methods with datasets for tropical beetles, tropical trees and tropical ants. Surprisingly, for all datasets we examined, the interpolation (rarefaction) curve and the extrapolation curve meet smoothly at the reference sample, yielding a single curve. Moreover, curves representing 95% confidence intervals for interpolated and extrapolated richness estimates also meet smoothly, allowing rigorous statistical comparison of samples not only for rarefaction but also for extrapolated richness values. The confidence intervals widen as the extrapolation moves further beyond the reference sample, but the method gives reasonable results for extrapolations up to about double or triple the original abundance or area of the reference sample. We found that the multinomial and Poisson models produced indistinguishable results, in units of estimated species, for all estimators and datasets. For sample-based abundance data, which allows the comparison of all three models, the Bernoulli product model generally yields lower richness estimates for rarefied data than either the multinomial or the Poisson models because of the ubiquity of non-random spatial distributions in nature.		[Colwell, Robert K.; Chazdon, Robin L.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA; [Chao, Anne; Lin, Shang-Yi] Natl Tsing Hua Univ, Inst Stat, Hsinchu 30043, Taiwan; [Gotelli, Nicholas J.] Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [Mao, Chang Xuan] Shanghai Univ Finance & Econ, Sch Stat & Management, Shanghai 200433, Peoples R China; [Longino, John T.] Univ Utah, Dept Biol, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA; [Colwell, Robert K.] Univ Connecticut, Dept Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Storrs, CT 06269 USA								1375							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000299103600002		
J	Liu, Yunhui; Axmacher, Jan C.; Wang, Changliu; Li, Liangtao; Yu, Zhenrong								Ground Beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) Assemblages of Restored Semi-natural Habitats and Intensively Cultivated Fields in Northern China								RESTORATION ECOLOGY				20	2			234	239		10.1111/j.1526-100X.2010.00755.x			MAR 2012	2012	Diversity of ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) assemblages and sub-assemblages was compared between reafforested woodland, grassland, and intensively cultivated fields at Chongli County in Northern China. An array of eight pitfall traps per plot was used to sample the beetles on four replicate plots for each habitat. Replanted conifer woodland and semi-natural grassland harbored very similar beetle assemblages. These had significantly lower rarefied species numbers than the distinctly different assemblages recorded in cultivated fields, with differences in alpha diversity being less pronounced for large and predatory species. Carabid activity-density levels were higher in both woodland and grassland than in fields, with this trend being most pronounced for predatory and large species. To conserve high levels of gamma diversity, it is important to maintain a mosaic of agricultural areas and semi-natural habitats. The latter also form a potential source for predatory species important in pest control. It appears that woodland-specific species are rare in the study area, or they have not been able to reach and colonize the newly established woodland sites. It can also be concluded that morphological and ecological traits allow important insights into underlying ecological principles of overall diversity patterns.		[Liu, Yunhui; Wang, Changliu; Li, Liangtao; Yu, Zhenrong] China Agr Univ, Coll Agr Resources & Environm Sci, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China; [Axmacher, Jan C.] UCL, UCL Dept Geog, London WC1E 6BT, England; [Wang, Changliu] China Agr Univ, Coll Agr Resources & Environm Sci, Beijing 100193, Peoples R China								23							Ecology	WOS:000301048900013		
J	Grau, Oriol; Ninot, Josep M.; Ferre, Albert; Font, Xavier; Grytnes, John-Arvid								Altitudinal species richness patterns of vascular plants in the south-eastern Pyrenees and nearby mountains of Catalonia								PLANT ECOLOGY & DIVERSITY				5	1			115	126		10.1080/17550874.2012.666027			2012	2012	Background: Studying how species richness varies with altitude has become an important part of investigations on mechanisms explaining regional-scale plant species diversity. Altitudinal diversity patterns are poorly known in the Pyrenees and elsewhere in the main mountain massifs in Catalonia (north-eastern Iberian Peninsula). Aim: We examine the altitudinal patterns of species richness in the Catalan Pyrenees and compare them with those in other mountains in Catalonia. Altitude patterns of species richness in the Pyrenees are compared for functional and taxonomic groups of vascular plants. Methods: Data on vascular plants were obtained from the Biodiversity Data Bank of Catalonia. We used rarefaction and interpolation to quantify the altitudinal diversity patterns. Results: The interpolated and rarefied richness generally peaked in the lower part of the altitudinal gradient, but with remarkable variation depending on the taxonomic or functional groups considered. Using all species, there was little variation between the different mountains, but the altitude at which richness started to decrease varied between them. Conclusions: The pronounced differences among different taxonomic groups and life-forms indicate a strong phylogenetic and adaptive signal on the altitudinal diversity pattern in the Catalan Pyrenees. The lack of regional differences within Catalonia is probably due to small differences in the intensity of climatic gradients across mountains.		[Grau, Oriol; Ninot, Josep M.; Ferre, Albert; Font, Xavier] Univ Barcelona, Dept Plant Biol, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; [Grytnes, John-Arvid] Univ Bergen, Dept Biol, Bergen, Norway; [Grau, Oriol] Univ Barcelona, Dept Plant Biol, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain								10							Plant Sciences	WOS:000310593300012		
J	Zmihorski, Michal								The effects of anthropogenic and natural disturbances on breeding birds of managed Scots pine forests in northern Poland								ORNIS FENNICA				89	1			63	73					2012	2012	Anthropogenic disturbance of habitats associated with clear-cut harvesting has replaced natural disturbances, such as wildfire and wind-throw, as initiators of succession in most European forests. Recently, however, forest management has begun to adopt techniques that better mimic natural disturbances, following the documentation of the negative effects of forestry activities, but less information exists on the relative similarity between man-caused and natural disturbances. This study aimed at comparing the bird faunas of windstorm, clear-cut and closed-forest areas in northern Poland. Following the two disturbances, species inhabiting open areas and edge habitats increased (e.g., Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella and Woodlark Lullula arborea) while closed-forest specialists decreased (Wood Warbler Phylloscopus sibilatrix, Crested Tit Parus cristatus and Goldcrest Regulus regulus). Community density, rarefied diversity and estimated species richness were higher in the disturbed than in the intact, closed-canopy forests. The species-specific responses to windstorm and clear-cutting were positively correlated, i.e., a given species that increased in response to one disturbance regime also increased in response to the other. This finding indicates that man-made disturbances, such as logging, may act as substitutes for natural disturbances for some species.		Polish Acad Sci, Museum & Inst Zool, PL-00679 Warsaw, Poland; [Zmihorski, Michal] Polish Acad Sci, Museum & Inst Zool, Wilcza 64, PL-00679 Warsaw, Poland								11							Ornithology	WOS:000302279800006		
J	Kuhn, Jesper; Andino, Patricio; Calvez, Roger; Espinosa, Rodrigo; Hamerlik, Ladislav; Vie, Signe; Dangles, Olivier; Jacobsen, Dean								Spatial variability in macroinvertebrate assemblages along and among neighbouring equatorial glacier-fed streams								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				56	11			2226	2244		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2011.02648.x			NOV 2011	2011	1. During the past two decades, understanding of the structure and function of glacier-fed stream ecosystems at temperate latitudes has increased substantially. In contrast, information on their tropical counterparts is very limited. We studied three neighbouring glacier-fed streams in the tropical Andes of Ecuador. Our main goals were (i) to determine overall longitudinal patterns in density, taxon richness and the composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages and driving factors in equatorial glacial streams and (ii) to examine variability among replicate streams in faunal metrics and assemblages, and stream-specific effects of supposed environmental key factors. 2. We measured four geographical and 17 environmental factors and collected five Surber samples (500 cm(2)) of macroinvertebrates at each of nine sites, three sites along three streams. The streams were located 1-5 km apart. In each stream, the three sites were placed at comparable distances from the glacier and were grouped as 'upper' (50-200 m), 'middle' (1.5 km) and 'lower' sites (3.5-5.6 km). 3. In total, 2200 individuals (64% chironomids) were collected and 47 taxa (30 dipterans, 18 of these Chironomidae) identified. Density ranged from 176 to 372 ind.m(-2), and the number of taxa ranged from 2 to 6 at the upper sites and 868-3044 ind.m(-2) and 21-27 taxa at the lower sites. Density, number of taxa, rarefied richness and axis-1 coordinates from a MDS ordination increased logarithmically with distance from the glacier. These faunal metrics were equally related to altitude and glacier per cent of catchment and correlated with maximum conductivity, mean temperature, mean daily maximum temperature and a channel stability index. As expected, the mean difference in distance decay in similarity was higher at the upper (47% km(-1)) than at the lower reaches (20% km(-1)) of the streams. 4. The number of taxa varied among sites within the upper and middle groups, but not among the lower sites. In contrast, but in accordance with our expectation, assemblage composition did not differ among upper sites but did so at middle and lower sites, following a supposed decrease in environmental harshness along the streams. Relationships between faunal metrics and the four environmental variables mean temperature, the stability index, chlorophyll a and coarse particulate organic matter also varied among the three streams. Generalised linear model analyses revealed that temperature interacted with stream on macroinvertebrate density, while chlorophyll a had a significant effect on the number of taxa in interaction with stream and stability. 5. The basic predictions of the Milner et al. (2001a), model regarding longitudinal faunal patterns and temperature and stability as main driving factors were met by our three replicate equatorial glacial streams. Qualitative departures from the model were mainly because of zoogeographical differences. We demonstrated that variability in assemblages between comparable sites in closely situated streams was considerable, and the effect of key environmental factors varied among streams and interacted with other factors. Quantifying spatial variation in benthic assemblages may help us foresee possible consequences for biodiversity as a result of glacial retreat.		[Kuhn, Jesper; Hamerlik, Ladislav; Vie, Signe; Jacobsen, Dean] Univ Copenhagen, Freshwater Biol Sect, Dept Biol, DK-3400 Hillerod, Denmark; [Andino, Patricio; Espinosa, Rodrigo; Dangles, Olivier] Pontificia Univ Catolica Ecuador, Escuela Ciencias Biol, Lab Entomol, Quito, Ecuador; [Calvez, Roger] UMR G EAU, IRD, Inst Rech Dev, Montpellier 5, France; [Hamerlik, Ladislav] Slovak Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Bratislava, Slovakia; [Dangles, Olivier] CNRS, LEGS, Inst Rech Dev IRD, UR 072,UPR 9034, F-91198 Gif Sur Yvette, France; [Dangles, Olivier] Univ Paris 11, Orsay, France; [Jacobsen, Dean] Univ Copenhagen, Freshwater Biol Sect, Dept Biol, Helsingorsgade 51, DK-3400 Hillerod, Denmark								31							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000296061400004		
J	Schroeder, Leif Martin; Sahlin, Erik; Paltto, Heidi								Retention of aspen (<i>Populus tremulae</i>) at final cuttings - The effect of dead wood characteristics on saproxylic beetles								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				262	5			853	862		10.1016/j.foreco.2011.05.019			SEP 1 2011	2011	To preserve biodiversity in managed forest landscapes dead and living trees are retained at final cuttings. In the present study we evaluated the effect of these practices for saproxylic (wood-dependent) beetles inhabiting dead aspen trees (Populus tremulae). For saproxylic beetles, tree retention at final cuttings can be expected to be especially valuable for species adapted to sun-exposed dead wood, a substrate that only rarely occurs in well managed forest stands. Therefore, the current evaluation was conducted as a comparison of species richness, species density (number of species per sample), assemblage composition and occurrence of individual species between clear-cuts, where aspen trees were retained, and closed forest stands with aspen trees. The study was conducted in central Sweden and the beetles were sampled by sieving of bark from CWD (coarse woody debris) of aspen. There was no significant difference in rarefied species richness between forest and clear-cut sites. Species composition differed significantly between the two stand types. Generalized linear mixed-effects models predicted the species density to be 34% lower in CWD objects in forest sites than on clear-cuts. This pattern could partly be explained by differences in CWD diameter, decay class and bark types between the two stand types (clear-cut/forest). Stand type was a significant predictor of occurrence in individual CWD objects for 30% of analysed individual beetle species. For all species except one, the variable stand type predicted higher occurrence on clear-cuts than in forest stands. To conclude, our results demonstrate that retention of aspen on clear-cuts contributes to population recruitment of a different assemblage of species than CWD within stands. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Schroeder, Leif Martin; Paltto, Heidi] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, S-75007 Uppsala, Sweden; [Schroeder, Leif Martin] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, POB 7044, S-75007 Uppsala, Sweden								10							Forestry	WOS:000292672800015		
J	Gallardo, Belinda; Gascon, Stephanie; Quintana, Xavier; Comin, Franciso A.								How to choose a biodiversity indicator - Redundancy and complementarity of biodiversity metrics in a freshwater ecosystem								ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS				11	5			1177	1184		10.1016/j.ecolind.2010.12.019			SEP 2011	2011	A range of biodiversity metrics are available to assess the ecological integrity of aquatic ecosystems. However, performance varies considerably among different types of metrics and provides different information regarding ecosystem conditions, thus making difficult the selection of appropriate metrics for biomonitoring. The present study evaluated the robustness of six biodiversity metrics to assess environmental change and determine their utility as relevant indicators of ecosystem biodiversity and functionality. Traditional metrics such as species richness and Shannon diversity were considered along with alternative metrics such as functional diversity, size diversity and taxonomic distinctness. To that end, invertebrate assemblages in a river floodplain were used as a case study to evaluate the performance of metrics using Generalized Additive Models (GAM). GAM explained between eight and 49% of the variability in biodiversity. The regression models exhibited differences in the response of biodiversity indicators to environmental factors, suggesting that intermediate levels of turbidity and low salinity are conditions favouring increased biodiversity in the study area. Based on correlations among metrics and responses to primary environmental factors, it is concluded that Shannon and functional diversity, and rarefied species richness generated similar information regarding ecosystem conditions (i.e., the metrics were redundant): while size diversity and distinctness provided useful additional data characterizing ecosystem quality (i.e., the metrics were complementary). Functional diversity indicated riot only number and dominance of species, but also each species functional role in the community, and was therefore the most informative biodiversity metric. Nevertheless, the use of a combination of metrics, for example functional and size diversity, and variation in taxonomic distinctness, provides complementary data that will serve to achieve a more thorough understanding of ecosystem structure and function, and response to primary environmental influences. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		[Gallardo, Belinda; Comin, Franciso A.] CSIC, Pyrenean Inst Ecol, Zaragoza, Spain; [Gascon, Stephanie; Quintana, Xavier] Univ Girona, Inst Aquat Ecol, Girona, Spain; [Gallardo, Belinda] Univ Cambridge, Dept Zool, Aquat Ecol Grp, Downing St, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, England								82							Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000291409700019		
J	Theimer, Tad C.; Gehring, Catherine A.; Green, Peter T.; Connell, Joseph H.								Terrestrial vertebrates alter seedling composition and richness but not diversity in an Australian tropical rain forest								ECOLOGY				92	8			1637	1647					AUG 2011	2011	Although birds and mammals play important roles in several mechanisms hypothesized to maintain plant diversity in species-rich habitats, there have been few long-term, community-level tests of their importance. We excluded terrestrial birds and mammals from fourteen 6 x 7.5 m plots in Australian primary tropical rain forest and compared recruitment and survival of tree seedlings annually over the subsequent seven years to that on nearby open plots. We re-censused a subset of the plots after 13 years of vertebrate exclusion to test for longer-term effects. After two years of exclusion, seedling abundance was significantly higher (74%) on exclosure plots and remained so at each subsequent census. Richness was significantly higher on exclosure plots from 1998 to 2003, but in 2009 richness no longer differed, and rarefied species richness was higher in the presence of vertebrates. Shannon's diversity and Pielou's evenness did not differ in any year. Vertebrates marginally increased density-dependent mortality and recruitment limitation, but neither effect was great enough to increase richness or diversity on open plots relative to exclosure plots. Terrestrial vertebrates significantly altered seedling community composition, having particularly strong impacts on members of the Lauraceae. Overall, our results highlight that interactions between terrestrial vertebrates and tropical tree recruitment may not translate into strong community-level effects on diversity, especially over the short term, despite significant impacts on individual species that result in altered species composition.		[Theimer, Tad C.; Gehring, Catherine A.] No Arizona Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA; [Green, Peter T.] La Trobe Univ, Dept Bot, Bundoora, Vic 3086, Australia; [Connell, Joseph H.] Univ Calif Santa Barbara, Dept Ecol Evolut & Marine Biol, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 USA; [Theimer, Tad C.] No Arizona Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Box 5640, Flagstaff, AZ 86011 USA								22							Ecology	WOS:000293459100010		
J	Schuldt, Andreas; Both, Sabine; Bruelheide, Helge; Haerdtle, Werner; Schmid, Bernhard; Zhou, Hongzhang; Assmann, Thorsten								Predator Diversity and Abundance Provide Little Support for the Enemies Hypothesis in Forests of High Tree Diversity								PLOS ONE				6	7					e22905	10.1371/journal.pone.0022905			JUL 28 2011	2011	Predatory arthropods can exert strong top-down control on ecosystem functions. However, despite extensive theory and experimental manipulations of predator diversity, our knowledge about relationships between plant and predator diversity-and thus information on the relevance of experimental findings-for species-rich, natural ecosystems is limited. We studied activity abundance and species richness of epigeic spiders in a highly diverse forest ecosystem in subtropical China across 27 forest stands which formed a gradient in tree diversity of 25-69 species per plot. The enemies hypothesis predicts higher predator abundance and diversity, and concomitantly more effective top-down control of food webs, with increasing plant diversity. However, in our study, activity abundance and observed species richness of spiders decreased with increasing tree species richness. There was only a weak, non-significant relationship with tree richness when spider richness was rarefied, i.e. corrected for different total abundances of spiders. Only foraging guild richness (i.e. the diversity of hunting modes) of spiders was positively related to tree species richness. Plant species richness in the herb layer had no significant effects on spiders. Our results thus provide little support for the enemies hypothesis-derived from studies in less diverse ecosystems-of a positive relationship between predator and plant diversity. Our findings for an important group of generalist predators question whether stronger top-down control of food webs can be expected in the more plant diverse stands of our forest ecosystem. Biotic interactions could play important roles in mediating the observed relationships between spider and plant diversity, but further testing is required for a more detailed mechanistic understanding. Our findings have implications for evaluating the way in which theoretical predictions and experimental findings of functional predator effects apply to species-rich forest ecosystems, in which trophic interactions are often considered to be of crucial importance for the maintenance of high plant diversity.		[Schuldt, Andreas; Haerdtle, Werner; Assmann, Thorsten] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol, Luneburg, Germany; [Both, Sabine; Bruelheide, Helge] Univ Halle Wittenberg, Inst Biol Geobot, Halle, Germany; [Both, Sabine; Bruelheide, Helge] Univ Halle Wittenberg, Bot Garden, Halle, Germany; [Schmid, Bernhard] Univ Zurich, Inst Evolutionary Biol & Environm Sci, Zurich, Switzerland; [Zhou, Hongzhang] Chinese Acad Sci, Inst Zool, Beijing, Peoples R China; [Schuldt, Andreas] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol, Luneburg, Germany								64							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000293284600064		
J	Morais, Alessandro Ribeiro; Signorelli, Luciana; Gambale, Priscilla Guedes; Kopp, Katia; Nomura, Fausto; Guimaraes, Loretta Dall'ara; Vaz-Silva, Wilian; Ramos, Jade; Bastos, Rogerio Pereira								Anuran amphibians associated to water bodies in Southwest of Goias State (Brazil)								BIOTA NEOTROPICA				11	3			355	363		10.1590/S1676-06032011000300028			JUL-SEP 2011	2011	The Cerrado is the second largest biome in Brazil and is considered one of most important among the biodiversity hotspots. In this biome can be found about 150 anurans species, from which 30% are endemic. However, there are many Cerrado areas that have little information gathered about the anuran biodiversity. Thus, in this study we present the result of an inventory of anurans species from the southwest region of Goias State (Central Brazil). In this region, we sampled 45 water bodies, located near soybean and sugar-cane cultures, pastures and natural vegetation, from November/2007 to February/2008 and from November/2008 to March/2009. Altogether, adults and tadpoles of 36 species were registered, with the majority of species registered in association to open areas. The rarefied curve of species richness show an asymptote formation, which indicates that the chance to add species to the inventory is low, even with additional habitats sampling. Therefore, our results reveal high species richness in the present sampled region, which represented almost one fourth of all species found in Cerrado.		[Morais, Alessandro Ribeiro; Signorelli, Luciana; Gambale, Priscilla Guedes; Nomura, Fausto; Ramos, Jade; Bastos, Rogerio Pereira] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Lab Herpetol, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Kopp, Katia] Univ Fed Goias, Escola Engn Civil, BR-74605220 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Nomura, Fausto; Bastos, Rogerio Pereira] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Dept Ecol, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Guimaraes, Loretta Dall'ara] Univ Fed Goias, Ctr Ensino & Pesquisa Aplicada Educ, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Vaz-Silva, Wilian] Ctr Univ Goias Uni Anhanguera, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-74415450 Goiania, Go, Brazil; [Morais, Alessandro Ribeiro] Univ Fed Goias, Inst Ciencias Biol, Lab Herpetol, CP 131, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil								9							Biodiversity Conservation	WOS:000299853800029		
J	Suehs, Rafael Barbizan; Budke, Jean Carlos								Spatial distribution, association patterns and richness of tree species in a seasonal forest from the Serra Geral formation, southern Brazil								ACTA BOTANICA BRASILICA				25	3			605	617					JUL-SEP 2011	2011	(Spatial distribution and association patterns of tree species in a seasonal forest from the Serra Geral formation, southern Brazil). This study aimed to determine the spatial distribution of the most abundant tree species, to look for relationships that may be responsible for their distribution and to compare the expected richness along the Serra Geral formation in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. An one-hectare plot was divided in 100 contiguous 10 x 10 m sampling units and all individuals with at least 4.8 cm diameter at breast high were measured and identified. Each sampling unit received a description of the spatial position through metric coordinates (x,y) in order to quantify the spatial pattern. Later, an association index among species was applied. The observed richness was rarefied and compared to other surveys located on the slopes of Serra Geral in Rio Grande do Sul. We surveyed 1,063 individuals belonging to 69 species and 33 families, and the Shannon's diversity index showed a diversity of 3.35 nats (Pielou's species evenness - J' = 0.79). Most species showed an aggregated distribution. Both association and dissociation patterns occurred among species leading to distinct forest patches. The rarefaction results showed a decrease of Atlantic species, which were replaced by typical seasonal forest species, when analyzing floristic contingents towards the west.		[Suehs, Rafael Barbizan; Budke, Jean Carlos] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Lab Sistemat & Ecol Vegetal, Erechim, RS, Brazil; [Suehs, Rafael Barbizan] Univ Reg Integrada Alto Uruguai & Missoes, Dept Ciencias Biol, Lab Sistemat & Ecol Vegetal, Erechim, RS, Brazil								9							Plant Sciences	WOS:000297274100014		
J	Boelter, Carlos Renato; Zartman, Charles Eugene; Fonseca, Carlos Roberto								Exotic tree monocultures play a limited role in the conservation of Atlantic Forest epiphytes								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				20	6			1255	1272		10.1007/s10531-011-0026-z			JUN 2011	2011	The Brazilian Atlantic Forest suffered a severe geographic contraction along the last five centuries that reduced drastically most vascular epiphyte populations. Among the range of man-made matrixes, tree monocultures have the potential to contribute positively to the maintenance of the regional epiphyte diversity. Here, we test the similarity in abundance, richness, and species composition between vascular epiphytic communities established in managed monocultures of exotic and native species with natural communities occurring in neighboring native Araucaria Forest patches. In the So Francisco de Paula National Forest (Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil), we recorded 62 epiphyte species from 300 phorophytes occurring in 12, one-hectare plots of Araucaria Forest and managed plantations of Pinus, Eucalyptus and Araucaria. Species richness, rarefied richness and abundance were significantly higher in Araucaria Forest in comparison to the exotic stands. Species composition was also substantially differentiated as Araucaria Forest patches harbored a greater number of zoochorous species than those of the exotic stands. Additionally, plantations of Araucaria angustifolia, a native species, sustained more individuals and more species than the exotic plantations. Neither tree height nor DBH explained epiphyte richness; however, both phorophyte diversity and stand age together accounted for 92% of the among-site variation in epiphytic species richness. We conclude that substrate heterogeneity in combination with time available for colonization contribute significantly to beta-diversity of epiphytes in Araucaria forests. However, demographic experimental studies are necessary in order to disentangle the role of substrate quality from metapopulation processes, such as dispersal limitation, at both temporal and spatial scales.		[Boelter, Carlos Renato; Zartman, Charles Eugene] Natl Inst Amazonian Res, Dept Bot, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Fonseca, Carlos Roberto] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Norte, Ctr Biociencias, Dept Bot Ecol & Zool, BR-59078900 Natal, RN, Brazil; [Zartman, Charles Eugene] Natl Inst Amazonian Res, Dept Bot, Av Andre Araujo, BR-69060001 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil								23							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000290165600007		
J	Galle, Robert; Vesztergom, Norbert; Somogyi, Tamas								Environmental conditions affecting spiders in grasslands at the lower reach of the River Tisza in Hungary								ENTOMOLOGICA FENNICA				22	1			29	38		10.33338/ef.4241			MAY 31 2011	2011	The aims of the present study were to reveal the differences between grassland types, and to identify the local and landscape parameters that influence the spider assemblages at the reach of the River Tisza. The rarefied number of spider species was negatively correlated with the proportion of forests in a radius of 500 m around each site. A negative correlation was found between the number of grassland specialist species and the proportion of the forests, but the number of forest species increased significantly with the neighboring forest area. The relative area of neighboring forests, the number of plant species and regular flooding played major roles in shaping of the species composition of spiders. The results of the present study emphasize the importance of the effect of habitat landscape properties on spider assemblages. The structural diversity of the landscape may influence species richness and composition of the habitats.		[Galle, Robert; Vesztergom, Norbert; Somogyi, Tamas] Univ Szeged, Dept Ecol, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary; [Galle, Robert] Univ Szeged, Dept Ecol, Kozepfasor 52, H-6726 Szeged, Hungary								18							Entomology	WOS:000291708000005		
J	Safian, Szabolcs; Csontos, Gabor; Winkler, Daniel								Butterfly community recovery in degraded rainforest habitats in the Upper Guinean Forest Zone (Kakum forest, Ghana)								JOURNAL OF INSECT CONSERVATION				15	1-2			351	359		10.1007/s10841-010-9343-x			APR 2011	2011	Successful regeneration of secondary tropical forest might be crucial in the conservation of rainforests, since large areas of primary forest have been destroyed or degraded. Animal communities might play an important role in restoration of biological diversity in these secondary habitats, since some groups have high mobility and capacity for dispersal. Fruit-feeding butterflies were trapped to measure differences between butterfly communities in primary rainforest and disturbed forest habitats of different stage of regeneration including clear-cut, abandoned farmland, newly planted forest and middle-aged secondary growth. 3465 specimens representing 114 species were identified from 56 traps operated for 36 days. Extremely high values of rarefied species richness were estimated in the clear-cut habitat, due to the high number of singletons and doubletons. This was caused by a gap-effect that allowed penetration of canopy and open area species after disturbance. The differences between butterfly communities were best demonstrated through ecological composition, richness and abundance of indicator groups and habitat similarity based on Jaccard's similarity index. The results show a clear ability of butterfly communities in degraded forest habitats to regenerate in 50-60 years after clearance.		[Safian, Szabolcs] Univ W Hungary, Inst Silviculture & Forest Protect, H-9400 Sopron, Hungary; [Csontos, Gabor] Univ Pannonia, Georgikon Fac Agr, H-8360 Keszthely, Hungary; [Winkler, Daniel] Univ W Hungary, Inst Wildlife Management & Vertebrate Zool, H-9400 Sopron, Hungary; [Safian, Szabolcs] Univ W Hungary, Inst Silviculture & Forest Protect, Bajcsy Zsilinszky U 4, H-9400 Sopron, Hungary								21							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000287359200032		
J	Gotlieb, Ariella; Hollender, Yael; Mandelik, Yael								Gardening in the desert changes bee communities and pollination network characteristics								BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY				12	4			310	320		10.1016/j.baae.2010.12.003			2011	2011	Conversion of natural habitats to human settlements creates an alternative habitat with different bio-physical characteristics such as micro-climatic conditions and resource availability. Deserts are especially sensitive to such effects due to generally low nutrient levels and water availability. Gardens in human settlements in the desert are often a main source of alien plant species that provide ample foraging resources year round. These changes in floral composition and availability may alter pollinator community composition and foraging behaviour, as well as pollination network characteristics. We investigated the effects of desert gardening on pollinator communities and pollination networks in the Jordan Rift Valley (Israel), an arid agro-natural landscape south of the Dead Sea. We studied seasonal diversity patterns of plants and wild bees in natural habitats and in gardens in settlements. Wild bees and blooming plants were sampled from February to July in 2007 and in 2008. We constructed plant pollinator networks and compared bee communities between the two habitat types along the season. We found that bee abundance was greater in the gardens, and that rarefied bee species richness was greater in the natural habitat. Bee species richness and abundance exhibited contrasting seasonal patterns between habitats. Bee community composition also differed greatly between habitats, and species in the gardens had a generally wider geographical range in comparison to species in the natural habitat. We also found a higher level of generalisation of the pollination network in the gardens compared to the natural habitat, which may indicate a response to a disturbed and unstable environment. We conclude that gardening in deserts although promoting overall bee abundance, negatively affects species richness and changes community composition and network characteristics, with possible implications on the composition of native flora in the natural habitat surrounding the gardens.		[Gotlieb, Ariella; Hollender, Yael] Tel Aviv Univ, Fac Life Sci, Dept Zool, IL-69978 Tel Aviv, Israel; [Mandelik, Yael] Hebrew Univ Jerusalem, Fac Agr Food & Environm, Dept Entomol, IL-76100 Rehovot, Israel; [Gotlieb, Ariella] Tel Aviv Univ, Fac Life Sci, Dept Zool, POB 39040, IL-69978 Tel Aviv, Israel								28							Ecology	WOS:000293312600005		
J	Ivanov, Kaloyan; Keiper, Joe								Ant (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) diversity and community composition along sharp urban forest edges								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				19	14			3917	3933		10.1007/s10531-010-9937-3			DEC 2010	2010	The effects of forest edge on ant species richness and community composition were examined within an urbanized area of northeast Ohio. The ground-dwelling ant fauna was inventoried in three deciduous forest fragments that have resulted from human disturbance. We surveyed ants via leaf-litter extraction along 150 m transects positioned perpendicular to the forest edge. We collected 4,670 individuals from 14 genera and 29 species. Samples closest to the forest edge contained more species and accumulated species at a higher rate than did samples located in the forest interior. Our rarefied and expected richness estimates revealed a decline of species richness from edge to forest interior. The higher ant richness at the forest edge was due mostly to the presence of species characteristic of the neighboring open habitats. Although most of the typical forest ant species were represented equally at the edge and at the forest interior, a few responded to the presence of edges with changes in their relative abundance and frequency of occurrence. Forest edges had a higher proportion of opportunistic species and a lower proportion of cryptic ants, whereas interior locations exhibited a more even distribution among ant functional groups. In addition, we documented a community composition shift between the edge and the forest interior. Consistent with previous findings, we suggest that the edge effects are most pronounced within 25 m of the forest edge, which may have implications for the overall conservation of forest-dwelling fauna.		[Ivanov, Kaloyan] Cleveland State Univ, Dept Biol Geol & Environm Sci, Cleveland, OH 44115 USA; [Keiper, Joe] Virginia Museum Nat Hist, Martinsville, VA 24112 USA; [Ivanov, Kaloyan] Cleveland State Univ, Dept Biol Geol & Environm Sci, 2121 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44115 USA								20							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000284644800006		
J	Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco								Ecological assessment of highly heterogeneous systems: The importance of taxonomic sufficiency								LIMNOLOGICA				40	3			208	214		10.1016/j.limno.2009.06.011			SEP 2010	2010	We assess the effects of taxonomic resolution (genus-family levels) on the ecological assessment of 39 highly heterogeneous ponds located in north-western Spain. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) and one-way analysis of similarities (ANOSIM) were used to investigate the effects of taxonomic resolution on the macroinvertebrate assemblage structure. The Mann Whitney U-test and discrimination efficiency were used to assess the ability of nine diversity measures (total richness, rarefied richness samples of 25, 50 and 100 individuals, Margalef's index, Pielou's evenness, Shannon-Weaver's index, Simpson's index and percent dominant taxon) to discriminate between acceptable (best available and good conditions) and unacceptable (moderate, poor and very poor) conditions using three levels of taxonomic resolution: (i) family, (ii) family plus subfamilies of benthic non-biting midges and (iii) genus level. Based on non-metric MDS, the macroinvertebrate assemblages of ponds of acceptable (A) and unacceptable (N) conditions were statistically undistinguishable, both at genus and family levels. On the other hand, based on several community metrics (total richness, Margalef index, etc.) the two sets of samples were statistically different, although only when the genus or the subfamily level was used and after Bonferroni correction. These results suggest that the structure of macroinvertebrate assemblages by itself is more sensitive than the specific composition in distinguishing the fauna living in acceptable and unacceptable conditions. Moreover, dealing with families including many taxa generally showing different tolerance to disturbance may lead to misclassification of ponds. We agree, however, that the two approaches, i.e. assemblage composition and diversity measures, are conceptually different and hence they should be used in combination for a better understanding of the response of single metrics. (C) 2009 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.		[Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco] Univ Leon, Dept Biodivers & Environm Management, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, E-24071 Leon, Spain; [Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Environm Assessment, POB 7050, Uppsala, Sweden								11							Limnology	WOS:000280034600002		
J	Leidner, Allison K.; Haddad, Nick M.; Lovejoy, Thomas E.								Does Tropical Forest Fragmentation Increase Long-Term Variability of Butterfly Communities?								PLOS ONE				5	3					e9534	10.1371/journal.pone.0009534			MAR 10 2010	2010	Habitat fragmentation is a major driver of biodiversity loss. Yet, the overall effects of fragmentation on biodiversity may be obscured by differences in responses among species. These opposing responses to fragmentation may be manifest in higher variability in species richness and abundance (termed hyperdynamism), and in predictable changes in community composition. We tested whether forest fragmentation causes long-term hyperdynamism in butterfly communities, a taxon that naturally displays large variations in species richness and community composition. Using a dataset from an experimentally fragmented landscape in the central Amazon that spanned 11 years, we evaluated the effect of fragmentation on changes in species richness and community composition through time. Overall, adjusted species richness (adjusted for survey duration) did not differ between fragmented forest and intact forest. However, spatial and temporal variation of adjusted species richness was significantly higher in fragmented forests relative to intact forest. This variation was associated with changes in butterfly community composition, specifically lower proportions of understory shade species and higher proportions of edge species in fragmented forest. Analysis of rarefied species richness, estimated using indices of butterfly abundance, showed no differences between fragmented and intact forest plots in spatial or temporal variation. These results do not contradict the results from adjusted species richness, but rather suggest that higher variability in butterfly adjusted species richness may be explained by changes in butterfly abundance. Combined, these results indicate that butterfly communities in fragmented tropical forests are more variable than in intact forest, and that the natural variability of butterflies was not a buffer against the effects of fragmentation on community dynamics.		[Leidner, Allison K.; Haddad, Nick M.] N Carolina State Univ, Dept Biol, Raleigh, NC 27695 USA; [Lovejoy, Thomas E.] H John Heinz III Ctr Sci Econ & Environm, Washington, DC USA; [Lovejoy, Thomas E.] Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Biol Dynam Forest Fragments Project, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Lovejoy, Thomas E.] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Lovejoy, Thomas E.] George Mason Univ, Dept Environm Sci & Policy, Fairfax, VA 22030 USA; [Leidner, Allison K.] Univ Maryland, Dept Plant Sci & Landscape Architecture, College Pk, MD 20742 USA								34							Multidisciplinary Sciences	WOS:000275328800006		
J	Benetti, C. J.; Garrido, J.								THE INFLUENCE OF WATER QUALITY AND STREAM HABITAT ON WATER BEETLE ASSEMBLAGES IN TWO RIVERS IN NORTHWEST SPAIN								VIE ET MILIEU-LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT				60	1			53	63					MAR 2010	2010	The objective of this study was to identify the response of aquatic Coleoptera to water quality and habitat variables in two rivers in northwest Spain with different degrees of contamination. The water beetle assemblages of the Lagares and Minor Rivers were studied during an annual cycle (May 2001-January 2002). Several physical and chemical variables, in addition to habitat and spatial factors were measured at each site. The environmental variables were then subjected to PCA to facilitate the interpretation of the principal components. The structure of the assemblage was evaluated for different richness measures: Species richness rarefied (ES); Abundance (N) AND Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index (H'). Regression analysis was used to examine the relationships between the richness measures and the water quality variables and the relationship between species and environmental variables was explored by Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA). Differences in assemblage structure were examined using analysis of similarities with Bray-Curtis index. We found a total of 35 species of Coleoptera belonging to 10 families, 37 % of which are endemic to the Iberian Peninsula. All richness measures decrease in degraded sites, with a negative correlation between these factors and sites with high levels of contamination. Data analyses also indicated significant differences among the assemblages of non-polluted and polluted waters. CCA showed that most of the species seemed to be sensitive to pollution, only Limnius volckmari (Panzer) and Elmis aenea (Muller) might be considered tolerant species.		[Benetti, C. J.; Garrido, J.] Univ Vigo, Dept Ecol & Biol Anim, Fac Biol, Vigo 36310, Spain; [Benetti, C. J.] Univ Vigo, Dept Ecol & Biol Anim, Fac Biol, Campus Lagoas Marcosende, Vigo 36310, Spain								15							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000283212300007		
J	Larrivee, Maxim; Buddle, Christopher M.								Scale dependence of tree trunk spider diversity patterns in vertical and horizontal space								ECOSCIENCE				17	4			400	410		10.2980/17-4-3403			2010	2010	We explored the multiple-spatial-scale diversity patterns of canopy and understorey north-temperate mature tree trunk spiders following a hierarchically nested design. We investigated local dynamics and dispersal limitations of canopy and understorey spider assemblages by using a combination of additive partitioning of richness and changes in species composition through spatially nested multivariate ANOVA. Community composition differed significantly between canopy and understorey assemblages and also at stand and site spatial scales, while beta richness was higher than expected from random at the site spatial scale only. Alpha richness did not differ from random at any spatial scale considered in the regional context of our study (tree, stand, and site) and was similar in the canopy and the understorey when rarefied. There was a shift in the contribution of alpha and beta richness as the spatial resolution increased because beta diversity contributed more to tree spider richness and alpha diversity to our site-level spider richness. Our study demonstrates that diversity patterns of mature tree trunk spiders in north-temperate hardwood forests are scale dependent in vertical and horizontal space: at our tree and stand spatial scales, local dynamics such as niche availability and species interactions may drive bark spider assemblage diversity since mean richness did not change significantly whereas species composition did.		[Larrivee, Maxim; Buddle, Christopher M.] McGill Univ, Dept Nat Resource Sci, Ste Anne De Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada; [Larrivee, Maxim] Univ Ottawa, Dept Biol, 30 Marie Curie, Ottawa, ON K1N 6N5, Canada								16							Ecology	WOS:000285465300008		
J	Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco								Habitat selection and sampling design for ecological assessment of heterogeneous ponds using macroinvertebrates								AQUATIC CONSERVATION-MARINE AND FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS				19	7			786	796		10.1002/aqc.1043			NOV-DEC 2009	2009	1. Habitat heterogeneity has many implications in ecological assessment studies. On one hand it provides varying niches for organisms, increasing diversity. On the other hand, the inherent spatial variability of structurally complex systems may overlap with ecological condition making it difficult to disentangle the effects of perturbation. This study investigated the combined and single effects of habitat and pond condition on the macroinvertebrate assemblages of 35 ponds located in north-west Spain and spanning a range of water quality and habitat characteristics. 2. Macroinvertebrate communities and several environmental variables were sampled in the summer of 2004 or 2003. Samples were collected from four dominant habitats (vegetated shores, shores without vegetation, submerged vegetation, bare sediments) following a time-limited sampling. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and two-way crossed ANOSIM were used to investigate the taxonomic and functional differences in macroinvertebrate assemblage structure among habitats (four types) and pond conditions (optimal, good, moderate, poor, very poor). To investigate the individual and combined effects of pond condition and habitat on several diversity measures GLM models were used. In addition, the accuracy of two sampling designs - stratified and multihabitat - was compared using the CVs of seven macroinvertebrate attributes. 3. Results showed that macroinvertebrate communities differed significantly, albeit weakly, among habitat types and pond condition categories. In particular, the abundance of several Chironomidae genera., rarefied richness and Shannon index decreased both in perturbed systems and bare sediments, whereas no marked differences occurred between shores and submerged vegetation. 4. We suggest that a multihabitat approach together with the use of community attributes not (or slightly) affected by habitat type will provide more comparable results across ponds than a stratified approach or observation of the whole community, especially in ponds where degradation leads to habitat loss. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		[Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina; Fernandez-Alaez, Camino; Garcia-Criado, Francisco] Univ Leon, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Dept Biodivers & Environm Management, E-24071 Leon, Spain; [Trigal-Dominguez, Cristina] Univ Leon, Fac Biol & Environm Sci, Dept Biodivers & Environm Management, E-24071 Leon, Spain								3							Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Water Resources	WOS:000271778200007		
J	Steinberg, Ashley J.; Ejsmont-Karabin, Jolanta; Muirhead, Jim R.; Harvey, Chad T.; MacIsaac, Hugh J.								Consistent, long-term change in rotifer community composition across four Polish lakes								HYDROBIOLOGIA				624	1			107	114		10.1007/s10750-008-9671-y			MAY 2009	2009	Few studies exist documenting changes in rotifer communities over long time intervals. Here, we explore seasonal and long-term variation in rotifer communities in four Polish lakes sampled in 1976 and again in 1997. Rarefied, asymptotic species richness did not differ significantly across study years, although values in 1997 tended to be higher. Simpson's and Shannon-Wiener diversity measures provided inconsistent temporal results, with only the former indicating significantly higher richness in 1997. Sorensen's coefficient of community similarity was as high among lakes in 1976 (0.81) and in 1997 (0.76) as within lakes across the 21-year span (0.77). Nonlinear redundancy analysis of species' abundances revealed large, consistent seasonal changes across lakes, smaller consistent shifts between sampling periods, and small differences between lakes. Collectively, these metrics indicate that species composition was relatively stable among lakes within years and within lakes between years, while species' abundance patterns were far more variable and most affected by season.		[Steinberg, Ashley J.; Muirhead, Jim R.; Harvey, Chad T.; MacIsaac, Hugh J.] Univ Windsor, Great Lakes Inst Environm Res, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada; [Ejsmont-Karabin, Jolanta] Polish Acad Sci, Ctr Ecol Res, Hydrobiol Stn, Mikolajki, Poland; [MacIsaac, Hugh J.] Univ Windsor, Great Lakes Inst Environm Res, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada								4							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000263378100009		
J	Rother, Debora C.; Rodrigues, Ricardo R.; Pizo, Marco A.								Effects of bamboo stands on seed rain and seed limitation in a rainforest								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				257	3			885	892		10.1016/j.foreco.2008.10.022			FEB 10 2009	2009	Bamboos often negatively affect tree recruitment, survival, and growth, leading to arrested tree regeneration in forested habitats. Studies so far have focused on the effects of bamboos on the performance of seedlings and saplings, but the influence of bamboos on forest dynamics may start very early in the forest regeneration process by altering seed rain patterns. We tested the prediction that the density and composition of the seed rain are altered and seed limitation is higher in stands of Guadua tagoara (B or bamboo stands), a large-sized woody bamboo native from the Brazilian Atlantic Forest, compared to forest patches without bamboos (NB or non-bamboo stands). Forty 1 m(2) seed traps were set in B and NB stands, and the seed rain was monitored monthly for 1 year. The seed rain was not greatly altered by the presence of bamboos: rarefied seed species richness was higher for B stands, patterns of dominance and density of seeds were similar between stands, and differences in overall composition were slight. Seed limitation, however, was greater at B stands, likely as a resulted of reduced tree density. Despite Such reduced density, the presence of trees growing amidst and over the bamboos seems to play a key role in keeping the seeds falling in B stands because they serve as food sources for frugivores or simply as perches for them. The loss of such trees may lead to enhanced seed limitation, contributing ultimately to the self-perpetuating bamboo disturbance cycle. (C) 2008 Elsevier B,V. All rights reserved.		[Pizo, Marco A.] Univ Vale Rio dos Sinos, Programa Posgrad Biol, Ctr Ciencias Saude, BR-93022000 Sao Leopoldo, RS, Brazil; [Rother, Debora C.] Univ Estadual Paulista, Programa Posgrad Biol Vegetal, BR-13506900 Rio Claro, SP, Brazil; [Rodrigues, Ricardo R.] Univ Sao Paulo, Escola Super Agr Luiz Queiroz, Dept Ciencias Biol, BR-13418900 Piracicaba, SP, Brazil; [Pizo, Marco A.] Univ Vale Rio dos Sinos, Programa Posgrad Biol, Ctr Ciencias Saude, BR-93022000 Sao Leopoldo, RS, Brazil								45							Forestry	WOS:000263215700014		
J	Paillex, Amael; Doledec, Sylvain; Castella, Emmanuel; Merigoux, Sylvie								Large river floodplain restoration: predicting species richness and trait responses to the restoration of hydrological connectivity								JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY				46	1			250	258		10.1111/j.1365-2664.2008.01593.x			FEB 2009	2009	Floodplains are species-rich environments often strongly impacted by human activities. In particular, the negative effects of progressive and rapid disconnection of secondary channels have led to restoration programmes and a growing interest in restoration ecology. Current restoration strategies in large river floodplains focus on the macroinvertebrate response related to the increases in lateral connectivity of the secondary channels. We constructed a framework to assess a gradient of hydrological connectivity among 13 secondary channels and the main channel of a large river, and we modelled the response of a set of macroinvertebrate metrics to this gradient. Comparisons between predicted and observed metrics in restored channels allowed us to measure the effect of an increase in the hydrological connectivity on the biological characteristics of macroinvertebrate assemblages. The pre-restoration framework enabled a clear ordering of channels into three types according to levels of hydrological connectivity. Rarefied richness and species traits, responding to the connectivity gradient, showed a net difference between disconnected channels and the main river channel. We were able to highlight a predation-colonization trade-off along the gradient of hydrological connectivity with a maximum colonization potential in the most connected channels. Post-restoration sampling showed deviations of the restored channels from their expected ecological state. A large proportion of colonizers were favoured by the restoration operations and non-native species occurred in the restored channels. Synthesis and applications. Macroinvertebrate biodiversity in large river floodplains is shaped by lateral hydrological connectivity. Increasing hydrological connectivity led to an increase in colonization rate. One year after restoration, the increase in lateral connectivity had shifted the restored sites away from the predicted state. This unpredictability is, in part, a consequence of the rapid colonization by non-native species of new habitats created by the restoration measures. We recommend that floodplain-scale restoration should focus on diversification of the hydrological connectivity of channels, thereby conserving a maximum of functional characteristics in macroinvertebrate communities.		Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Aquat Biol, CH-1206 Geneva, Switzerland; [Doledec, Sylvain; Merigoux, Sylvie] Univ Lyon, UMR CNRS 5023, Ecol Hydrosystemes Fluviaux, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Paillex, Amael; Castella, Emmanuel] Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Aquat Biol, CH-1206 Geneva, Switzerland; [Doledec, Sylvain; Merigoux, Sylvie] Univ Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR Ecol Hydrosyst Fluviaux 5023, F-69622 Villeurbanne, France; [Paillex, Amael] Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Aquat Biol, 18 Chemin Clochettes, CH-1206 Geneva, Switzerland								99							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000262477800028		
J	Masis, Alejandro; Marquis, Robert J.								Effects of even-aged and uneven-aged timber management on dung beetle community attributes in a Missouri Ozark forest								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				257	2			536	545		10.1016/j.foreco.2008.09.036			JAN 31 2009	2009	The goal of this study was to estimate the effects of even-aged, uneven-aged and no-harvest forest management on dung beetle community attributes at both landscape and local (either closed or open canopy within treatments) scales. We collected a total 2579 individuals of Scarabaeoidea with 72 baited pitfall traps in the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project throughout the summer of 2003. Six species accounted for 81% of all individuals collected, with community composition changing over the summer. At the landscape scale, the effects of treatments on overall abundance and abundance of individual species varied geographically, with forest thinning reducing abundance compared to clear-cutting forest stands and no harvest but in only one of the three blocks. The effects were also dung beetle species-specific, as there were unique responses of abundances of individual beetle species to the treatments. Five species (Ateuchus histeroides, Deltochilum gibbosum, Onthophagus pennsylvanicus, O. taurus, and O. tuberculifrons) were affected by forest thinning. In contrast, at the local scale, canopy opening (through timber harvesting and natural tree falls) increased expected (rarefied) species richness. Ordination showed that community composition was uniquely different among the six harvest treatments by canopy openness combinations. Together these results demonstrate that timber extraction from a temperate forest ecosystem influenced community composition of dung beetles at the landscape level, but this impact varied with cutting treatment, geographically, and by dung beetle species. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Masis, Alejandro; Marquis, Robert J.] Univ Missouri, Dept Biol, St Louis, MO 63121 USA; [Marquis, Robert J.] Univ Missouri, Dept Biol, 1 Univ Blvd, St Louis, MO 63121 USA								9							Forestry	WOS:000261918900018		
J	Lods-Crozet, Brigitte; Castella, Emmanuel								Colonisation by midges (Chironomidae, Diptera) of recently-created shallow ponds: implications for the restoration of lacustrine fringing wetlands								ANNALES DE LIMNOLOGIE-INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF LIMNOLOGY				45	4			257	266		10.1051/limn/2009028			2009	2009	As part of a wetland conservation programme for the Southern shore of lake Neuchatel (Western Switzerland), an experiment was started in 1993 to slow down the terrestrialization of the wetland. Sediments were removed in a reed-belt adjacent to an existing pond, at three different depths (0.20, 0.30 and 0.40 m), thus creating a new shallow pond. The colonisation by aquatic vegetation and invertebrates was monitored during three years (1994-1996) to evaluate the effect of the creation of a new pond on the chironomid diversity and abundance through time. Chironomids (78 taxa) were among the most diverse group colonising this fringing wetland. Significant differences in abundance were found between the reed-belt and the pond habitats (existing and recently created ponds). As expected, the latter was more productive, especially during the first two years of colonization. However, the chironomid diversity in the newly created pond, measured by the rarefied richness, was intermediate between the reed-belt (low diversity) and the pre-existing pond. Ordination of the sites on the basis of their chironomid assemblages confirmed this trend. The depth at which the sediment was scrapped off, had no major influence upon the chironomid assemblages. Finally, within the three years after creation of open water habitats, the production of chironomids and consequently their availability for dabbling ducks and wetland birds, were enhanced. However, this time was not enough for the chironomid community to reach the diversity of the pre-existing pond, to which it is connected. The creation of shallow ponds seemed to be crucial to slow down terrestrialization processes in this lacustrine wetland and to have only slight effects on the chironomid communities.		[Lods-Crozet, Brigitte] Musee Cantonal Zool, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland; [Castella, Emmanuel] Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Biol Aquat, Geneva, Switzerland; [Lods-Crozet, Brigitte] Musee Cantonal Zool, Pl Riponne 6,CP, CH-1014 Lausanne, Switzerland								16							Limnology	WOS:000273484300006		
J	Gallardo, B.; Gascon, S.; Gonzalez-Sanchis, M.; Cabezas, A.; Comin, F. A.								Modelling the response of floodplain aquatic assemblages across the lateral hydrological connectivity gradient								MARINE AND FRESHWATER RESEARCH				60	9			924	935		10.1071/MF08277			2009	2009	Hydrological connectivity is one of the main controlling factors of habitats and aquatic assemblages on river floodplains. Nevertheless, the lack of universal measures of river-floodplain connectivity (i.e. the lateral hydrological connectivity, LHC) limits the comparison of the response of aquatic assemblages to hydrological connectivity and impedes the understanding of floodplain functioning across different systems. To address these needs, we tested the ability of six different LHC surrogates to model changes in richness, abundance and composition of aquatic assemblages across a Mediterranean floodplain (Ebro River, NE Spain). As shown by generalised additive models, LHC surrogates explained 15% to 65% of the richness and abundance of aquatic assemblages. Zooplankton, macroinvertebrates and phytoplankton showed overlapping peaks of richness at flood duration rates of 5, 15 and 30 days year(-1) respectively. Redundancy analyses showed that LHC surrogates explained 17% to 37% of aquatic assemblage composition. Distance to the river and flood duration were the most important determinants of macroinvertebrate composition, whereas flood magnitude and water-level variability best accounted for the variance in zooplankton and phytoplankton compositions. Models based on LHC surrogates such as those presented here can help in predicting the consequences of restoration measures and may be useful in setting restoration goals for aquatic assemblages.		[Gallardo, B.; Gonzalez-Sanchis, M.; Cabezas, A.; Comin, F. A.] Pyrenean Inst Ecol Spanish Council Sci, Zaragoza 50192, Spain; [Gascon, S.] Univ Girona, Fac Sci, Inst Aquat Ecol, Girona 17071, Spain; [Gallardo, B.] Pyrenean Inst Ecol Spanish Council Sci, Avda Montanana 1005, Zaragoza 50192, Spain								25							Fisheries; Limnology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000270029800006		
J	Collinson, Margaret E.; Steart, David C.; Harrington, Guy J.; Hooker, Jerry J.; Scott, Andrew C.; Allen, Lynn O.; Glasspool, Ian J.; Gibbons, Sharon J.								Palynological evidence of vegetation dynamics in response to palaeoenvironmental change across the onset of the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum at Cobham, Southern England								GRANA				48	1			38	66	PII 909651574	10.1080/00173130802707980			2009	2009	A high-resolution palynological study is undertaken through the Cobham Lignite Bed (Cobham, Kent, UK) to investigate vegetation response to the rapid climate warming at the onset of the Paleocene-Eocene thermal maximum (PETM). The lower laminated lignite records negative carbon isotope ( 13C) excursions (CIE) (marking the PETM onset) in bulk organic material, n-alkanes and, uniquely, also in hopanes. The upper blocky lignite represents an estimated 4-12 kya after PETM onset. Raw and rarefied palynomorph species richness measures are higher in the PETM but the difference is not statistically significant. Only five (of 24) common taxa have last appearance or major shifts in percentage occurrence close to the PETM onset. One of these, a triporate eudicot, occurs only in the maximum negative CIE sample and the immediately underlying sample, the former at very high percentages, an interesting feature of PETM onset. The palynomorph composition of Late Paleocene samples is significantly different from PETM samples. In the late Paleocene there is a close association of high abundances of Cicatricosisporites (Schizaeaceae) fern spores with microscopic and mesoscopic charcoal representing a low diversity fire prone fern and woody angiosperm community. By contrast, the PETM vegetation is characterised by the loss of ferns and cessation of fires, an increase in wetland plants (including cupressaceous conifers) and a more varied flowering plant community with palms and eudicots. These palynofloras thus indicate little response in plant species across the PETM onset but a major change in vegetation composition, linked to a switch in fire regime.		[Collinson, Margaret E.; Steart, David C.; Scott, Andrew C.; Glasspool, Ian J.; Gibbons, Sharon J.] Univ London, Dept Earth Sci, Egham TW20 0EX, Surrey, England; [Steart, David C.] Univ Witwatersrand, Dept Palaeontol, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Harrington, Guy J.] Univ Birmingham, Sch Geog Earth & Environm Sci, Birmingham, W Midlands, England; [Hooker, Jerry J.] Nat Hist Museum, Dept Palaeontol, London SW7 5BD, England; [Glasspool, Ian J.] Field Museum Nat Hist, Dept Geol, Chicago, IL 60605 USA; [Collinson, Margaret E.] Univ London, Dept Earth Sci, Egham Hill, Egham TW20 0EX, Surrey, England								60							Plant Sciences	WOS:000264334600004		
J	Warfe, D. M.; Barmuta, L. A.; Wotherspoon, S.								Quantifying habitat structure: surface convolution and living space for species in complex environments								OIKOS				117	12			1764	1773		10.1111/j.1600-0706.2008.16836.x			DEC 2008	2008	Habitat complexity is often used to explain the distribution of species in environments, yet the ability to predict outcomes of structural differences between habitats remains elusive. This stems from the difficulty and lack of consistency in measuring and quantifying habitat structure, making comparison between different habitats and systems problematic. For any measure of habitat structure to be useful it needs to be applicable to a range of habitats and have relevance to their associated fauna. We measured three differently-shaped macrophyte analogues with nine indices of habitat structure to determine which would best distinguish between their shape and relate to the abundance and rarefied species richness of their associated macroinvertebrate assemblages. These indices included the physical, whole-plant attributes of surface area (SA) and plant volume (PV), the interstitial space attributes of average space size and frequency (ISI), average refuge space from predation (Sp/Pr), and total refuge space (FFV), and the degree of surface convolution at a range of scales (i.e. the fractal dimension at four spatial scales: 7.5x, 5x, 2.5x and 1x magnification). We found a high degree of inter-correlation between the structural indices such that they could be organised into two suites: one group describing interstitial space and surface convolution at coarse scales, the other describing whole-plant attributes and surface convolution at fine scales. Two of these indices fell into both suites: the average refuge space from predation (Sp/Pr) and the fractal dimension at 5x magnification. These two measures were also strongly related to macroinvertebrate abundance and rarefied species richness, which points to their usefulness in quantifying habitat structure and illustrates that habitat structure depends not just on shape, but on the space associated with shape.		[Warfe, D. M.; Barmuta, L. A.] Univ Tasmania, Tasmanian Aquaculture & Fisheries Inst, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia; [Warfe, D. M.; Barmuta, L. A.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Zool, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia; [Wotherspoon, S.] Univ Tasmania, Sch Math & Phys, Hobart, Tas 7001, Australia; [Warfe, D. M.] Charles Darwin Univ, Darwin, NT 0909, Australia								103							Ecology	WOS:000261793300002		
J	Vasconcelos, Marlon de Castro; Melo, Adriano S.								An experimental test of the effects of inorganic sediment addition on benthic macroinvertebrates of a subtropical stream								HYDROBIOLOGIA				610				321	329		10.1007/s10750-008-9447-4			SEP 2008	2008	Inorganic sediments of terrestrial origin may impact stream macroinvertebrate communities. Although input of terrestrial sediments to streams may occur naturally, human-induced activities in the catchment amplify this input greatly. We used an in-stream experiment to investigate whether short-term additions of terrestrial sediments of two size classes affected stream macroinvertebrates. The experiment was designed in blocks to minimize the influence of flow velocity and other environmental variables. Four treatments were employed: (i) addition of fine sand (0-0.24 mm), (ii) coarse sand (0.25-0.8 mm), (iii) fine+coarse sand, and (iv) control (water only). Macroinvertebrates were sampled immediately after the addition of sediments (or water). The experiment consisted of 20 blocks. We analyzed the response of the macroinvertebrate fauna in terms of abundance and species richness. Since species richness is strongly dependent on number of individuals sampled, we also analyzed rarefied species richness. Community structure was evaluated using a distance-based Manova on presence/absence and abundance data. The addition of coarse and fine+coarse sand reduced the abundance and species richness of macroinvertebrates in relation to the control. The response in terms of rarefied species richness in the treatments did not differ from the control, indicating that reduction in species richness was a sampling artifact resulting from decreased sample abundance. The Manova analyses indicated that coarse-sand addition caused changes in both species composition and community structure. Addition of fine and fine+coarse sand affected only slightly species composition and community structure. We concluded that even short-term input of terrestrial sediments causes impacts on benthic macroinvertebrates, and recommend that land-use management of tropical catchments should employ practices that reduce input of terrestrial sediments to streams.		[Vasconcelos, Marlon de Castro; Melo, Adriano S.] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; [Vasconcelos, Marlon de Castro] Univ Fed Rio Grande do Sul, Inst Biociencias, Dept Ecol, CP 15007, BR-91501970 Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil								27							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000257392300027		
J	Morris, T. L.; Witkowski, E. T. F.; Coetzee, J. A.								Initial response of riparian plant community structure to clearing of invasive alien plants in Kruger National Park, South Africa								SOUTH AFRICAN JOURNAL OF BOTANY				74	3			485	494		10.1016/j.sajb.2008.01.177			JUL 2008	2008	Recovery of indigenous species subsequent to the clearing of invasive alien plants (IAPs) is crucial for ecosystem recovery to occur. However, cleared sites are often just left in the hope that revegetation will occur naturally. In riparian areas of Kruger National Park (KNP), the Working for Water (WfW) Programme has cleared IAPs on a regular basis, but little post-clearance monitoring has taken place. Thus investigating short-term effects of IAPs and IAP clearing on plant community diversity and vegetation recovery provided an ideal opportunity to assess feasible targets of natural ecosystem recovery in similar areas. Vegetation was sampled from twelve transects along the Sabie River in and adjacent to the KNP, before (March/April 2006) and after (March 2007) the annual clearing of IAPs by WfW. Rarefied species richness, alpha diversity and evenness of distribution of species all declined with increasing density of IAPs (P < 0.05). There was a mean reduction in IAP density of 80% (S.E +/- 6%) (P=0.002) through the clearing by WfW. After clearing of IAPs, indigenous vegetation densities increased, with herbaceous growth forms showing the largest increase in transects that were previously heavily invaded. Thus, in this system, which is relatively undisturbed by human activities, initial recovery of indigenous vegetation can occur without further restorative interventions. This process is more than likely aided by the continuous clearing of IAPs by WfW as this acts to deplete alien seed banks and maintain IAPs at acceptable and manageable levels. (C) 2008 SAAB. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Morris, T. L.; Witkowski, E. T. F.; Coetzee, J. A.] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa; [Coetzee, J. A.] Rhodes Univ, Dept Zool & Entomol, ZA-6140 Grahamstown, South Africa; [Witkowski, E. T. F.] Univ Witwatersrand, Sch Anim Plant & Environm Sci, Private Bag 3, ZA-2050 Johannesburg, South Africa								18							Plant Sciences	WOS:000257971800010		
J	Djupstrom, Line B.; Weslien, Jan; Schroeder, L. Martin								Dead wood and saproxylic beetles in set-aside and non set-aside forests in a boreal region								FOREST ECOLOGY AND MANAGEMENT				255	8-9			3340	3350		10.1016/j.foreco.2008.02.015			MAY 15 2008	2008	The availability of habitat for wood-dependent species has been greatly reduced in Fennoscandian boreal forests and hence the setting aside of forest land for conservation purposes is a common strategy. Here, we explore the biodiversity quality and conservation relevance of three categories of set-asides dominated by Norway spruce (nature reserves, woodland key habitats and retention patches, i.e. groups of living trees left on clear-cut areas) and a non set-aside forest category (old managed spruce forests) in a boreal forest region in central Sweden. The comparisons are based on surveys of (1) dead wood volumes, (2) diversity of dead wood types in terms of tree species, decomposition stage, diameter and presence of bark and (3) occurrence of saproxylic (i.e. wood dependent) beetles in Norway spruce, Picea abies. For saproxylic beetles, species richness, species composition and occurrence of red-listed species were compared. In total 180 dead wood types and 129 beetle species were found, 12 of which were red-listed. We found no significant difference between the forest categories in terms of total dead wood volume. However, the rarefied number of dead wood types was significantly greater in reserves and key habitats compared to retention patches. Woodland key habitats had significantly more beetle species than retention patches and old managed forests, as well as significantly more red-listed species than the retention patches. The species composition of retention patches, differed significantly from that of old managed forests and reserves, probably due to higher degrees of sun-exposure. We conclude that the conservation strategies explored in this study, provide valuable habitats and contribute differently to the preservation of old forests and saproxylic beetles. We would add that inventories, to identify conservation values, should be carried out prior to harvest of old stands and that measures should be taken accordingly to set-aside the parts of forest stands with the highest biodiversity values. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.		[Djupstrom, Line B.; Weslien, Jan] Forestry Res Inst Sweden Skogforsk, SE-75183 Uppsala, Sweden; [Djupstrom, Line B.; Schroeder, L. Martin] Swedish Univ Agr Sci, Dept Ecol, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden; [Djupstrom, Line B.] Forestry Res Inst Sweden Skogforsk, SE-75183 Uppsala, Sweden								38							Forestry	WOS:000256288800026		
J	Berndt, Lisa A.; Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.; Jactel, Herve								Relevance of exotic pine plantations as a surrogate habitat for ground beetles (Carabidae) where native forest is rare								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				17	5			1171	1185		10.1007/s10531-008-9379-3			MAY 2008	2008	Plantation forests are of increasing importance worldwide for wood and fibre production, and in some areas they are the only forest cover. Here we investigate the potential role of exotic plantations in supporting native forest-dwelling carabid beetles in regions that have experienced extensive deforestation. On the Canterbury Plains of New Zealand, more than 99% of the previous native forest cover has been lost, and today exotic pine (Pinus radiata) plantations are the only forest habitat of substantial area. Carabids were caught with pitfall traps in native kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) forest remnants and in a neighbouring pine plantation, grassland and gorse (Ulex europaeus) shrubland. A total of 2,700 individuals were caught, with significantly greater abundance in traps in young pine, grassland and gorse habitats than in kanuka and older pine. Rarefied species richness was greatest in kanuka, a habitat that supported two forest specialist species not present in other habitat types. A critically endangered species was found only in the exotic plantation forest, which also acts as a surrogate habitat for most carabids associated with kanuka forest. The few remaining native forest patches are of critical importance to conservation on the Canterbury Plains, but in the absence of larger native forest areas plantation forests are more valuable for carabid conservation than the exotic grassland that dominates the region.		[Berndt, Lisa A.] Scion, Rotorua 3046, New Zealand; [Brockerhoff, Eckehard G.] Scion, Christchurch 8540, New Zealand; [Jactel, Herve] INRA, F-33612 Cestas, France; [Berndt, Lisa A.] Scion, Private Bag 3020, Rotorua 3046, New Zealand								39							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000255998100013		
J	Heino, Jani; Paasivirta, Lauri								Unravelling the determinants of stream midge biodiversity in a boreal drainage basin								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				53	5			884	896		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2007.01946.x			MAY 2008	2008	1. Few extensive lotic studies have examined patterns in the biodiversity of non-biting midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) along major environmental gradients. Our aim was to fill this gap by describing patterns in species diversity, assemblage composition and distributions of midges across a boreal drainage basin. 2. We found that the diversity of midges, as measured by rarefied species richness, Fisher's alpha and Pielou's evenness, responded positively to stream size in regression analysis. By contrast, species density was most strongly correlated to a gradient in suspended solids and phosphorus in stream water, as well as macrophyte cover. Spatial variables were not significantly correlated with species diversity. 3. Midge assemblage composition was best explained by a model incorporating five composite environmental gradients in canonical correspondence analysis. The environmental gradients were stream size, macrophyte cover, alkalinity, nitrogen and suspended solids. Spatial variables did not overcome the effects of environmental gradients on assemblage composition. 4. Cluster analysis divided the 27 study sites into four groups with relatively similar midge assemblages. These groups were statistically significant in multi-response permutation procedure, and 15 of the 49 midge taxa recorded varied significantly among the groups in indicator value analysis. Discriminant function analysis showed that stream size, macrophyte cover and habitat structure predicted 66.7% of sites into correct groups. 5. The information provided by the present analyses may be of considerable importance in conservation planning at the drainage basin level. The fact that species diversity and assemblage composition varied primarily along the stream size gradient suggests that sites belonging to the different size classes (first to fifth order) are needed to conserve the biodiversity of midges. The other environmental gradients should also be considered in conservation planning, because they explained significant amounts of variability in midge assemblage composition.		[Heino, Jani] Univ Oulu, Finnish Environm Inst, Res Programme Biodivers, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland; [Heino, Jani] Univ Oulu, Finnish Environm Inst, Res Programme Biodivers, POB 413, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland								17							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000254808400004		
J	Jones, Mirkka M.; Tuomisto, Hanna; Olivas, Paulo C.								Differences in the degree of environmental control on large and small tropical plants: just a sampling effect?								JOURNAL OF ECOLOGY				96	2			367	377		10.1111/j.1365-2745.2007.01340.x			MAR 2008	2008	1. Tropical rain forest tree species are commonly perceived to have more generalized habitat distributions than understorey species. However, the correspondence between floristic patterns in large trees and smaller understorey plants in relation to environmental differences has rarely been investigated. Comparative analyses are complicated by the fact that tree data are often much more noisy, with higher overall species richness and poorer spatial and temporal representation of species composition within sampling plots. 2. Using data on trees and pteridophytes collected in 1125 plots located within 6 km(2) of lowland rain forest in Costa Rica, we asked: (i) Is there evidence that trees are more generalized in their edaphic and topographic distributions than pteridophytes, and (ii) How much might differences in sampling efficiency affect the results? 3. We ran community-level analyses using Mantel tests, and for the five most frequent tree and pteridophyte species we ran logistic regression analyses of species occurrence. To investigate the influence of differing sampling efficiency, the analyses were repeated with four rarefied pteridophyte data sets approximating key structural features of the tree data set. 4. Differences in community composition in trees and in all pteridophyte data sets were most strongly correlated with environmental differences in the same five soil variables. The most frequent species in both plant groups had non-random edaphic and topographic distributions. 5. Both Mantel correlations and the predictive performance of single species models (AUC values) were higher for the full pteridophyte data set than for trees, but these differences were much reduced after pteridophyte rarefaction. 6. The performance of the species occurrence models calibrated with rarefied pteridophyte data appeared poor when tested on rarefied data. However, their performance in predicting occurrences in the full data set was usually moderate (AUC > 0.70). This suggests that the tree species models may also predict species' potential habitat distributions better than is apparent from their AUC values. 7. Synthesis. Our results indicate that rain forest trees and pteridophytes may respond to mesoscale environmental variation in qualitatively similar ways, but that trees will appear much more generalized in their response to the environment unless differences in sampling efficiency are taken into account.		[Jones, Mirkka M.; Tuomisto, Hanna] Univ Turku, Dept Biol, FIN-20014 Turku, Finland; [Olivas, Paulo C.] Florida Int Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Miami, FL 33199 USA; [Jones, Mirkka M.] Univ Turku, Dept Biol, FIN-20014 Turku, Finland								27							Plant Sciences; Ecology	WOS:000252899300013		
J	Basset, Yves; Missa, Olivier; Alonso, Alfonso; Miller, Scott E. .; Curletti, Gianfranco; De Meyer, Marc; Eardley, Conna L.; Lewis, Owen T.; Mansell, Mervyn W.; Novotny, Vojtech; Wagner, Thomas								Choice of metrics for studying arthropod responses to habitat disturbance: one example from Gabon								INSECT CONSERVATION AND DIVERSITY				1	1			55	66		10.1111/j.1752-4598.2007.00011.x			FEB 2008	2008	1. The choice of metrics comparing pristine and disturbed habitats may not be straightforward. We examined the results of a study in Gabon including 21 arthropod focal taxa representing 16 855 individuals separated into 1534 morphospecies. Replication included the understorey of 12 sites representing four stages of land use after logging ( old and young forests, savanna and gardens), surveyed for 1 year using three sampling methods. 2. For all focal taxa, we calculated a suite of 13 metrics accounting for the intensity of faunal changes between habitats, namely: abundance; observed, rarefied and estimated species richness; proportion of rare species; additive diversity partitioning; evenness of assemblages; higher taxonomic composition; species turnover; ordination scores of multivariate analyses; nestedness; proportion of site-specific species and ratios of functional guilds. 3. Most metrics showed large differences between forests and non-forest habitats, but were not equally discriminating for particular taxa. Despite higher taxonomic groups being present in most habitats, many insect species were site or habitat specific. There was little evidence that the disturbance gradient represented a series of impoverished habitats derived from older forests. Rather, entire suites of species were being replaced as habitats were modified. 4. Metrics based on species identity had a high sensitivity to disturbance, whereas measurements describing community structure were less discriminating in this regard. We recommend using metrics based on abundance, estimated species richness, species turnover estimated by multivariate analyses and guild structure, to avoid misleading interpretations that may result from comparisons of species richness alone.		[Basset, Yves] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Panama City, Panama; [Missa, Olivier] Univ York, Dept Biol, York, N Yorkshire, England; [Alonso, Alfonso] Smithsonian Inst, Monitoring & Assessment Biodivers Program, Washington, DC 20560 USA; [Miller, Scott E. .] Smithsonian Inst, Natl Museum Nat Hist, Dept Systemat Biol, Washington, DC 20560 USA; [Curletti, Gianfranco] Museo Civ Storia Nat, Carmagnola, TO, Italy; [De Meyer, Marc] Royal Museum Cent Africa, Tervuren, Belgium; [Eardley, Conna L.] Plant Protect Res Inst, ZA-0001 Pretoria, South Africa; [Lewis, Owen T.] Univ Oxford, Dept Zool, Oxford OX1 3PS, England; [Mansell, Mervyn W.] Univ Pretoria, Dept Zool & Entomol, ZA-0002 Pretoria, South Africa; [Novotny, Vojtech] Univ S Bohemia, Czech Acad Sci, Ctr Biol, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Novotny, Vojtech] Univ S Bohemia, Sch Biol Sci, Ceske Budejovice, Czech Republic; [Wagner, Thomas] Univ Koblenz Landau, Inst Integrierte Nat Wissensch Biol, Koblenz, Germany; [Basset, Yves] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Apartado 0843-03092, Panama City, Panama								39							Biodiversity Conservation; Entomology	WOS:000262758400008		
J	Buse, Joern; Levanony, Tal; Timm, Anika; Dayan, Tamar; Assmann, Thorsten								Saproxylic beetle assemblages of three managed oak woodlands in the Eastern Mediterranean								ZOOLOGY IN THE MIDDLE EAST				45				55	66		10.1080/09397140.2008.10638307			2008	2008	Oak woodlands belong to the natural vegetation in most Mediterranean regions but have suffered from a long history of woodland devastation and overgrazing. The remaining woodlands have been managed in different ways, and we expected this to have effects on the fauna associated with trees. We investigated three different sites in the Eastern Mediterranean with flight-interception traps to analyse the impact of woodland management on dead wood and tree structures and the relevance for saproxylic beetle assemblages. Our results show significant differences in trunk diameter, stein density and dead wood diversity between the three sites. Old oaks in semi-open woodland are characterised by diverse stages of dead wood and harboured most saproxylic species (74 species out of a total of 98) and most individuals. With regard to rarefied species richness, we found that coppice woodland with a high stem density and medium-sized trees has the most diverse beetle assemblage (19.7 species per 100 individuals). Species richness was in general strongly associated with the diameter of the oaks, but, surprisingly, was also of the same level as species numbers reported from studies in Central Europe. The large number of singletons, which made tip 40 % of the entire sample, may indicate a considerable number of species that were not trapped. We discuss the impact of different management options on tree shape and woodland structure, issues which are also important for the saproxylic beetle assemblage associated with Mediterranean oaks. We conclude that oak woodlands in the Middle East - and especially those woodlands that have been used and managed in a sustainable way - represent a valuable resource for insect diversity.		[Buse, Joern] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Ecol, Inst Zool, D-55099 Mainz, Germany; [Levanony, Tal; Dayan, Tamar] Tel Aviv Univ, Dept Zool, IL-69978 Tel Aviv, Israel; [Timm, Anika; Assmann, Thorsten] Leuphana Univ Luneburg, Inst Ecol & Environm Chem, D-21335 Luneburg, Germany; [Buse, Joern] Johannes Gutenberg Univ Mainz, Dept Ecol, Inst Zool, JJ Becherweg 13, D-55099 Mainz, Germany								20							Zoology	WOS:000261906600008		
J	Hore, Upamanyu; Uniyal, V. P.								Diversity and composition of spider assemblages in five vegetation types of the Terai Conservation Area, India								JOURNAL OF ARACHNOLOGY				36	2			251	258		10.1636/CT07-53.1			2008	2008	This study deals with the comparison of spider diversity and composition ill a complex landscape of the Terai Conservation Area (TCA) characterized by alluvial floodplains of tall grassland interspersed with woodland. swamps, and riparian patches. High water table, annual flooding, and annual grassland fire maintain its dynamic complexity. A mosaic of five vegetation types was sampled For spiders front March 2005 to August 2006 by using pitfall traps and other semi-quantitative collection methods along transects. A total of 3666 adult Spiders representing 22 families, 60 genera, and 160 species were found.. Using the abundance-based estimator, Chaol, the predicted richness for the total area sampled is 173 +/- 8.32 (SD) species. This indicates that the inventory was almost complete at the regional scale (92%). With similar proportions of captured species. rarefied richness value showed that species richness was highest in riparian swamp forest Comparison of different sites revealed that species composition was much more similar within the same vegetation type than among different vegetation types. Assemblage composition differed the most between riparian swamp forest and plantation. Guild structure varied considerably in relation to the structural quality of vegetation.		[Hore, Upamanyu; Uniyal, V. P.] Wildlife Inst India, Dehra Dun 248001, Uttar Pradesh, India; [Uniyal, V. P.] Wildlife Inst India, Post Box 18, Dehra Dun 248001, Uttar Pradesh, India								30							Entomology	WOS:000260696100004		
J	Jacobsen, Dean								Low oxygen pressure as a driving factor for the altitudinal decline in taxon richness of stream macroinvertebrates								OECOLOGIA				154	4			795	807		10.1007/s00442-007-0877-x			JAN 2008	2008	The objective of this study was to explore the altitudinal decrease in local richness of stream macroinvertebrates. I compared the explicatory power of a mid-domain effect (MDE) null model and a number of selected contemporary ecological variables, with a special emphasis on the altitude-mediated decrease in temperature and oxygen availability as possible driving factors for the observed pattern. Benthic macroinvertebrates were sampled at 30 stream sites between 2,600 and 4,000 m a.s.l. in northern Ecuador. All four measures of local richness (total number of taxa, taxa in Surber samples, Fisher's alpha index and rarefied richness) decreased with increasing altitude. The MDE null model, water temperature and dissolved oxygen also decreased with altitude, while other measured variables were uncorrelated with altitude. Minimum oxygen saturation had the highest explanatory power of the density-corrected Fisher's alpha and rarefied richness (R = 0.48 and 0.52, respectively), but also minimum temperature (R = 0.48 and 0.41) and the MDE null model (R = 0.48 and 0.46) correlated significantly. Multiple regression analyses using several predictive variables showed that oxygen saturation had the greatest and only significant effect on density-corrected richness. The relationship between richness and oxygen corrected for the effect of altitude (using analyses of double residuals) was significant, whereas that of richness versus temperature was not. The results indicate that the decrease in richness with increasing altitude is mainly caused by a decrease in oxygen saturation rather than by a decrease in temperature. Levels of oxygen saturation such as those found at high altitudes do not appear to be lethal to any species, but could affect macroinvertebrates through long-term, sub-lethal effects. I suggest that low oxygen availability may limit biodiversity at high altitudes not only in the aquatic, but also in the terrestrial environment.		Univ Copenhagen, Freshwater Biol Lab, Inst Biol, DK-3400 Hillerod, Denmark; Univ Catolica Ecuador, Escuela Ciencias Biol, Quito, Ecuador; [Jacobsen, Dean] Univ Copenhagen, Freshwater Biol Lab, Inst Biol, Helsingorsgade 51, DK-3400 Hillerod, Denmark								97							Ecology	WOS:000251489000016		
J	Paillex, Amael; Castella, Emmanuel; Carron, Gilles								Aquatic macroinvertebrate response along a gradient of lateral connectivity in river floodplain channels								JOURNAL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN BENTHOLOGICAL SOCIETY				26	4			779	796		10.1899/06-12.1			DEC 2007	2007	Large river floodplains potentially include the full range of freshwater ecosystems from permanently flowing channels to temporary pools and springs. Attempts to restore such complex systems require tools adapted to assess restoration success. In an analysis of invertebrate assemblages in the Rhone River floodplain (France), taxonomic-based indices (rarefied richness and assemblage composition) were compared with functional metrics using trait-based ratios as surrogates of ecosystem processes. Their ability to respond to a gradient of hydrological connectivity was assessed in 7 cut-off channels. The sampling design included 2 sites/channel (upstream and downstream), 4 randomly chosen sampling points (0.5 x 0.5-m quadrats)/site, and 2 sampling seasons (spring and summer). Water physicochemical and habitat variables were recorded when invertebrates were sampled. Environmental variables, including water conductance, [NH3-N], submerged vegetation cover, diversity of sediment grain size, and organic matter content of the sediment, were used to construct a synthetic variable describing the hydrological connectivity of each site with the main river channel. A quadratic regression of rarefied taxonomic richness and the connectivity gradient was not quite significant, but assemblage composition was strongly related to the gradient. Four of 8 trait-based metrics; were correlated with the connectivity gradient. Values of metrics that are surrogates for top-down control of assemblage structure and habitat stability (based on functional feeding groups) declined along the gradient from disconnected sites to more connected sites. Values of metrics that are surrogates for voltinism and food supply for water-column-feeding fish increased with connectivity. Top-down control and voltinism surrogates suggested a decline in predator-prey relationships and lower habitat stability, respectively, in the more connected sites. Assemblage composition and some of the trait-based metrics were sensitive to a flood that occurred before one of the sampling dates. Some of the trait-based metrics showed potential for explaining floodplain invertebrate assemblages and for monitoring postrestoration conditions in floodplain water bodies. However, the metrics were developed initially for studies of lotic systems and their use in heterogeneous floodplain water bodies will require further investigation, e.g., delineation of reference conditions for trait-based metrics.		Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Biol Aquat, CH-1206 Geneva, Switzerland; [Paillex, Amael] Univ Geneva, Lab Ecol & Biol Aquat, 18 Ch Clochettes, CH-1206 Geneva, Switzerland								56							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000250645500016		
J	Olszewski, Thomas D.; Kidwell, Susan M.								The preservational fidelity of evenness in molluscan death assemblages								PALEOBIOLOGY				33	1			1	23		10.1666/05059.1			WIN 2007	2007	The richness (number of species) and evenness (uniformity of species abundances) of death assemblages can differ from corresponding living communities due to processes such as between-habitat transport, environmental condensation, and differential taphonomic destruction. Analysis of 132 single-census live-dead comparisons of benthic molluscs from a variety of soft-bottom marine settings indicates that on average evenness does not differ greatly between live and dead assemblages, regardless of the particular depositional setting or grain size of associated sediment. However, individnal death assemblages can deviate quite substantially from their corresponding living assemblages, especially if processed using a fine mesh. In addition, death assemblages collected using sieves with 2 mm mesh or coarser showed consistently and significantly greater evenness than corresponding living assemblages. These results are encouraging for broad-scale assessments of evenness in the fossil record based on the comparison of average values (rather than for individual assemblages) and where trends in evenness are the aim of the study. Our live-dead comparisons of richness sample-size corrected by rarefaction revealed that death assemblages were on average similar to 1.45 times richer than the corresponding living assemblages regardless of rarefied size. In 63.6% of death assemblages both dead richness and dead evenness were greater than live, suggesting sufficient time-averaging to catch significant random or directional changes in the living community and/or introduction of individuals from outside the sampled habitat. In 12.9% of collections both dead richness and dead evenness were less than live, suggesting either rapid loss of dead shells so that dead diversity is depressed below the local living community or selective loss of taphonomically vulnerable taxa. In 18.2% of data sets dead richness was elevated but dead evenness was depressed relative to live: these are interpreted to reflect the addition of low-evenness allochthonous material. The remaining 4.5% of data sets had elevated dead evenness but depressed dead richness, suggesting that live and dead in this case may not be closely related. In seven available time series, temporal volatility in living communities over 6-24 months was considerable but could not account for observed (mostly higher) evenness values in corresponding death assemblages, whose evenness and composition were quite stable in the few examined studies. A densely sampled spatial transect shows that changes in living-assemblage evenness along an environmental gradient were preserved in the corresponding death assemblages, although dead evenness at any location on the gradient was substantially higher than living evenness.		Texas A&M Univ, Dept Geol & Geophys, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; Texas A&M Univ, Fac Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, College Stn, TX 77843 USA; Univ Chicago, Dept Geophys Sci, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Olszewski, Thomas D.] Texas A&M Univ, Dept Geol & Geophys, College Stn, TX 77843 USA								76							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology; Paleontology	WOS:000244803800001		
J	Poulos, Helen M.; Taylor, Alan H.; Beaty, R. Matthew								Environmental controls on dominance and diversity of woody plant species in a Madrean, Sky Island ecosystem, Arizona, USA								PLANT ECOLOGY				193	1			15	30		10.1007/s11258-006-9245-x			NOV 2007	2007	The Sky Island archipelagos of the Sierra Madre Occidental contain diverse, highly endemic, and topographically complex ecosystems, yet the local and landscape-scale controls on woody plant dominance and diversity patterns are poorly understood. This study examines variation in woody plant species composition in relation to a suite of environmental variables (i.e., elevation, potential soil moisture, soil type, geologic substrate, and heat load) in the Chiricahua National Monument, Arizona (CHIR). Nine vegetation types were identified using cluster analysis that varied by species composition and plant life form. Non-metric multidimensional scaling and correlation analyses identified significant relationships between vegetation composition and elevation, potential soil moisture, and heat load. Rarefied species richness varied among vegetation types, and in relation to topography, with higher species richness occurring on more topographically complex sites. beta (species turnover) and gamma (landscape) diversity were also high in CHIR compared to other temperate forests. This study highlights the importance of local- and landscape-scale environmental controls on species diversity and vegetation patterns in Madrean evergreen woodlands.		Penn State Univ, Dept Geog, University Pk, PA 16802 USA; [Poulos, Helen M.] Yale Univ, Sch Forestry & Environm Studies, New Haven, CT 06511 USA								25							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000249802700002		
J	Radtke, M. G.; da Fonseca, C. R. V.; Williamson, G. B.								The old and young Amazon: Dung beetle biomass, abundance, and species diversity								BIOTROPICA				39	6			725	730		10.1111/j.1744-7429.2007.00324.x			NOV 2007	2007	The Amazon Basin can be divided into two geomorphological regions based on the age of its soils: young (< 30 mya) and old (> 300 mya). We tested the effects of soil age on dung beetle communities by comparing biomass, abundance, and species between reserves in Ecuador on young soils and reserves in Brazil on old soils. Beetle biomass in the old Amazon was one-third that in the young Amazon, and beetle abundance in the old Amazon was one-fourth that in the young Amazon. Species richness, rarefied to equal sample sizes, was not significantly different between old and young soils. These data suggest young soils of the Amazon support a significantly greater biomass and abundance of dung beetles than old soils, but that species richness across the Basin is similar. As dung beetles are bio-indicators of mammals, our data support previous studies indicating a greater biomass of mammals on young versus old Amazon soils.		Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA; Inst Nacl de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Dept Entomol, BR-69011970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, Inst Nacl Pesquisas Amazonia, Biol Dynam Forest Fragments Project, BR-69083970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Radtke, M. G.] Louisiana State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Baton Rouge, LA 70803 USA								10							Ecology	WOS:000249880900007		
J	Heino, Jani; Mykra, Heikki; Hamalainen, Heikki; Aroviita, Jukka; Muotka, Timo								Responses of taxonomic distinctness and species diversity indices to anthropogenic impacts and natural environmental gradients in stream macroinvertebrates								FRESHWATER BIOLOGY				52	9			1846	1861		10.1111/j.1365-2427.2007.01801.x			SEP 2007	2007	1. Many studies have shown traditional species diversity indices to perform poorly in discriminating anthropogenic influences on biodiversity. By contrast, in marine systems, taxonomic distinctness indices that take into account the taxonomic relatedness of species have been shown to discriminate anthropogenic effects. However, few studies have examined the performance of taxonomic distinctness indices in freshwater systems. 2. We studied the performance of four species diversity indices and four taxonomic distinctness indices for detecting anthropogenic effects on stream macroinvertebrate assemblages. Further, we examined the effects of catchment type and area, as well as two variables (pH and total phosphorus) potentially describing anthropogenic perturbation on biodiversity. 3. We found no indications of degraded biodiversity at the putatively disturbed sites. However, species density, rarefied species richness, Shannon's diversity and taxonomic diversity showed higher index values in streams draining mineral as opposed to peatland catchments. 4. Of the major environmental gradients analysed, biodiversity indices showed the strongest relationships with catchment area, lending further support to the importance of stream size for macroinvertebrate biodiversity. Some of the indices also showed weak linear and quadratic relationships to pH and total phosphorus, and residuals from the biodiversity index-catchment area regressions (i.e. area effect standardized) were more weakly related to pH and total phosphorus than the original index values. 5. There are a number of reasons why the biodiversity indices did not respond to anthropogenic perturbation. First, some natural environmental gradients may mask the effects of perturbation on biodiversity. Secondly, perturbations of riverine ecosystems in our study area may not be strong enough to cause drastic changes in biodiversity. Thirdly, multiple anthropogenic stressors may either increase or decrease biodiversity, and thus the coarse division of sites into reference and altered streams may be an oversimplification. 6. Although neither species diversity nor taxonomic distinctness indices revealed anthropogenic degradation of macroinvertebrate assemblages in this study, the traditional species diversity and taxonomic distinctness indices were very weakly correlated. Therefore, we urge that biodiversity assessment and conservation planning should utilize a number of different indices, as they may provide complementary information about biotic assemblages.		Oulu Univ, Finnish Environm Inst, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland; Univ Jyvaskyla, Dept Biol & Environm Sci, Jyvaskyla, Finland; Oulu Univ, Dept Biol, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland; [Heino, Jani] Oulu Univ, Finnish Environm Inst, POB 413, FI-90014 Oulu, Finland								91							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000248960100017		
J	Shen Shu-Zhong; Zhang Hua; Li Wen-Zhong; Mu Lin; Xie Jun-Fang								Brachiopod diversity patterns from Carboniferous to triassic in South China								GEOLOGICAL JOURNAL				41	3-4			345	361		10.1002/gj.1047			SEP 2006	2006	It has long been recognized that the trend of marine diversity from the Carboniferous to the Triassic includes an approximately 100-myr-long stable biodiversity stage ranging from the Late Carboniferous to the late Middle Permian, the most severe end-Permian mass extinction in the Phanerozoic (pre-Lopingian crisis and end-Changhsingian mass extinction together), a bleak stage in the Early Triassic and a rapid recovery stage in the Middle Triassic. However, little attention has been paid to smaller diversity fluctuations among relatively stable stages in the Carboniferous and Permian. Here, we establish a database of the brachiopod fossil records from the Carboniferous to Triassic in South China, including 104 families, 373 genera, 2081 species recorded by 7948 occurrences with relatively detailed biostratigraphic controls. Analyses based on the raw taxonomic richness at familial, generic and specific levels, proportional and total extinction/origination/turnover rates, and rarefaction analyses for 21 different intervals from the Carboniferous to Triassic reveal that the brachiopod diversity trends can be generally divided into two distinctly different stages. Brachiopods were highly diversified during the Carboniferous and Permian Periods, whereas they were dramatically reduced in diversity after the end-Changhsingian mass extinction. Brachiopods were abundant during the Early Carboniferous Tournaisian and Visean, and were characterized by many genera extending from the Late Devonian. This was followed by a significant simple diversity decline in the Serpukhovian Stage. The Early Permian (either in Sakmarian or Artinskian) diversity decline previously perceived by coral and fusulinid workers is indicated by the raw generic and familial richness, and taxonomic richness per million years. However, it is not expressed by the rarefied brachiopod trajectory, which is probably affected by sampling effect or taxonomic selectivity. Brachiopods apparently declined from Capitanian to Early Wuchiapingian. Thus, the brachiopod diversity trajectory from Pennsylvanian Bashkirian to Late Guadalupian Capitanian generally characterises a long stable stage. Brachiopods are extremely abundant in the Late Wuchiapingian and Changhsingian in view of raw taxonomic richness, but a rarefied trajectory reveals a flat step following the pre-Lopingian (end-Guadalupian) crisis until the end-Changhsingian mass extinction. Therefore, the previously widely perceived Lopingian radiation after the pre-Lopingian crisis appears to be at least partly over-stated. Brachiopods experienced a long bleak stage in the Early Triassic, followed by a rapid recovery in the Anisian, and reached their acme in the Norian, but never recovered to such a flourishing degree during the Carboniferous and Permian Periods. Brachiopods were eliminated in South China by the end-Triassic withdrawal of the sea from this region. Copyright (c) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.		Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geol & Palaeontol, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China; [Shen Shu-Zhong] Chinese Acad Sci, Nanjing Inst Geol & Palaeontol, 39 E Beijing Rd, Nanjing 210008, Peoples R China								44							Geosciences, Multidisciplinary	WOS:000241039300007		
J	Lapointe, Nicolas W. R.; Corkum, Lynda D.; Mandrak, Nicholas E.								A comparison of methods for sampling fish diversity in shallow offshore waters of large rivers								NORTH AMERICAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES MANAGEMENT				26	3			503	513		10.1577/M05-091.1			AUG 2006	2006	Few studies of fish assemblages have been conducted in large rivers owing to the difficulties of sampling such complex systems. We evaluated the effectiveness of six different gear types (seine nets, boat electrofishers, hoop nets, Windermere traps, trap nets, and minnow traps) in sampling the fish assemblage at 30 sites in the shallow offshore waters of the middle Detroit River in July and August 2003. A total of 2,449 fish representing 38 species in 15 families were captured by seining (1,293 fish, 29 species), boat electrofishing (398 fish, 23 species), hoop nets (524 fish, 26 species), and Windermere traps (234 fish, 14 species). Trap nets and minnow traps were not effective in sampling offshore littoral sites. Significantly higher fish species richness and abundance were obtained and more unique species were captured by seine nets than by any other gear type. When effort is constant, the highest richness and abundance are obtained by seine nets. Windermere traps produced significantly lower abundance and richness than all other gear types, but proportionally more benthic species. Total species accumulation rates were not markedly reduced when Windermere trap data were excluded. Use of additional Windermere traps at each site could increase abundance, but samples taken by Windermere traps had the lowest rarefied richness among gear types at any level of abundance. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling showed that seine-net catches, which were dominated by midwater schooling species (brook silverside Labidesthes sicculus, emerald shiner Notropis atherinoides, and mimic shiner N. volucellus), were most dissimilar from Windermere trap catches, which were dominated by centrarchids. Seine nets were the most effective gear for sampling offshore waters.		Univ Windsor, Dept Biol Sci, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada; Fisheries & Oceans Canada, Cent & Arctic Reg, Great Lakes Lab Fisheries & Aquat Sci, Burlington, ON L7R 4A6, Canada; [Lapointe, Nicolas W. R.] Univ Windsor, Dept Biol Sci, 401 Sunset Ave, Windsor, ON N9B 3P4, Canada								77							Fisheries	WOS:000240753900001		
J	Sullivan, Kelley A.; Ellison, Aaron M.								The seed bank of hemlock forests: implications for forest regeneration following hemlock decline								JOURNAL OF THE TORREY BOTANICAL SOCIETY				133	3			393	402		10.3159/1095-5674(2006)133[393:TSBOHF]2.0.CO;2			JUL-SEP 2006	2006	Soil seed banks are especially important for forest regeneration in stands with few understory species and individuals. The understory of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis)dominated stands in New England primarily consists of hemlock seedlings and saplings, but all size classes of hemlock are attacked by the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). Prior to the initiation of a large-scale manipulative experiment designed to examine the impact of the adelgid on hemlock forest ecology, we documented the seed bank composition of eight large (0.81 ha) experimental hemlock-dominated and Young hardwood-dominated plots. The seed bank samples from the hemlock-dominated plots contained significantly fewer species (rarefied species richness 24; 95% confidence interval = 20-28) than those from the hardwood -dominated plots (species richness = 30). Seed banks from all plots were dominated by Betula lenta, Rubus spp., and Carex pensylvanica. Among plots, there was little compositional relationship between the forest overstory and its understory on the one hand, and its seed bank on the other hand. Because seeds of' herrilock and birch persist for only a few years in the seed bank, and because hemlock seedlings are readily attacked and killed by the adelgid, damaged hemlock stands are more likely to be replaced by stands of black birch and other hardwoods than by hemlock.		Harvard Univ, Petersham, MA 01366 USA; [Ellison, Aaron M.] Harvard Univ, Harvard Forest,324 N Main St, Petersham, MA 01366 USA								23							Plant Sciences	WOS:000242957400002		
J	Cleary, Daniel F. R.; Mooers, Arne O.								Burning and logging differentially affect endemic vs. widely distributed butterfly species in Borneo								DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTIONS				12	4			409	416		10.1111/j.1366-9516.2006.00256.x			JUL 2006	2006	We assess the differential impact of logging and ENSO (El Nino Southern Oscillation)-induced disturbance on the relative butterfly abundance and species richness of range-restricted and widespread species within the island of Borneo. Relative abundance and species richness were assessed using rarefaction and species accumulation curves in unburned isolates surrounded by burned forest, the burned forest itself, and continuous forest unaffected by ENSO-induced disturbance in addition to logged and unlogged landscapes in unburned forest. The relative abundance of endemics was significantly higher in unlogged forest than logged forest and significantly higher in unburned forest than burned forest. Rarefied species richness of range categories was similar (Bornean endemics) or higher (other categories) in selectively logged than unlogged forest. In contrast, rarefied species richness of range-restricted species was highest in continuous forest, intermediate in unburned isolates, and lowest in burned forest. Only two individuals of a single Bornean endemic species were found in all the burned forest. Although species richness was higher in all range categories in continuous forest than in unburned isolates and in burned forest, the difference was most pronounced for range-restricted species. Logging and ENSO-induced fires thus have contrasting effects on range-restricted species. While both increase the relative abundance of widely distributed species at the expense of range-restricted species, only ENSO-induced disturbance lowers the rarefied number of restricted range species. Our research highlights the threat that severe ENSO events pose to geographically restricted classes of biodiversity.		Univ Amsterdam, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Dynam, NL-1090 GT Amsterdam, Netherlands; Simon Fraser Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; [Cleary, Daniel F. R.] Natl Museum Nat Hist, POB 9517, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands								30							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000238744700008		
J	Wang, YH; Augspurger, C								Comparison of seedling recruitment under arborescent palms in two Neotropical forests								OECOLOGIA				147	3			533	545		10.1007/s00442-005-0279-x			MAR 2006	2006	Certain overlying strata in forests may disproportionately reduce seedling density and species richness. For eight arborescent palm species, we quantified the relative restriction of seedling recruitment under individual palms versus non-palm sites and extended to the landscape scale by quantifying the total area covered by arborescent palms at Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama and La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. We also examined whether differences among palm species in restricting seedling recruitment were associated with differences in crown architecture, litter depth, and light availability. Woody seedlings had lower mean density/m(2) and mean number of species/m(2) under individual palms than at non-palm sites for all four palm species at BCI, but for none at La Selva. Estimated species richness for woody seedlings, derived via rarefaction, was lower under palm than non-palm microsites at both BCI and La Selva, but not for non-woody seedlings. Differences in seedling density corresponded to some key architectural characters that differed among the palm species. Light availability was lower under palm than non-palm microsites at both BCI and La Selva, but only estimated species richness of woody seedlings at BCI was strongly correlated with % canopy openness. The coverage of arborescent palms was much lower at BCI than La Selva. Therefore, at BCI, the relative restriction of woody seedling recruitment under individual palms does not accumulate greatly at the landscape scale. At La Selva, for woody seedlings, only estimated species richness was relatively limited under palms, and non-woody seedlings had relatively lower mean density/m(2) and mean number of species/m(2) under only one palm species. Therefore, the relative restriction of seedling recruitment by arborescent palms at La Selva is limited at both individual and landscape scales.		Univ Illinois, Dept Plant Biol, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; Univ Illinois, Program Ecol & Evolutionary Biol, Urbana, IL 61801 USA; [Wang, YH] Univ Texas, Dept Geog, Austin, TX 78712 USA								16							Ecology	WOS:000235706200016		
J	Cleary, DFR; Priadjati, A; Suryokusumo, BK; Menken, SBJ								Butterfly, seedling, sapling and tree diversity and composition in a fire-affected Bornean rainforest								AUSTRAL ECOLOGY				31	1			46	57		10.1111/j.1442-9993.2006.01542.x			FEB 2006	2006	Fire-affected forests are becoming an increasingly important component of tropical landscapes. The impact of wildfires on rainforest communities is, however, poorly understood. In this study the density, species richness and community composition of seedlings, saplings, trees and butterflies were assessed in unburned and burned forest following the 1997/98 El Nino Southern Oscillation burn event in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. More than half a year after the fires, sapling and tree densities in the burned forest were only 2.5% and 38.8%, respectively, of those in adjacent unburned forest. Rarefied species richness and Shannon's H' were higher in unburned forest than burned forest for all groups but only significantly so for seedlings. There were no significant differences in evenness between unburned and burned forest. Matrix regression and Akaike's information criterion (AIC) revealed that the best explanatory models of similarity included both burning and the distance between sample plots indicating that both deterministic processes (related to burning) and dispersal driven stochastic processes structure post-disturbance rainforest assemblages. Burning though explained substantially more variation in seedling assemblage structure whereas distance was a more important explanatory variable for trees and butterflies. The results indicate that butterfly assemblages in burned forest were primarily derived from adjacent unburned rainforest, exceptions being species of grass-feeders such as Orsotriaena medus that are normally found in open, disturbed areas, whereas burned forest seedling assemblages were dominated by typical pioneer genera, such as various Macaranga species that were absent or rare in unburned forest. Tree assemblages in the burned forest were represented by a subset of fire-resistant species, such as Eusideroxylon zwageri and remnant dominant species from the unburned forest.		Univ Amsterdam, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Dynam, NL-1090 GT Amsterdam, Netherlands; Natl Museum Nat Hist, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands; Borneo Orangutan Survival Fdn, BOS Samboja Lestari, Balikpapan, Indonesia; Univ Wageningen & Res Ctr, Dept Environm Sci, Radar Grp, Wageningen, Netherlands; [Cleary, DFR] Univ Amsterdam, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Dynam, POB 94766, NL-1090 GT Amsterdam, Netherlands								14							Ecology	WOS:000234576100006		
J	Bossart, JL; Opuni-Frimpong, E; Kuudaar, S; Nkrumah, E								Richness, abundance, and complementarity of fruit-feeding butterfly species in relict sacred forests and forest reserves of Ghana								BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION				15	1			333	359		10.1007/s10531-005-2574-6			JAN 2006	2006	Sacred forest groves in Ghana are centuries old protected areas that were once part of continuous forest cover but now mostly exist as relict forest patches embedded in an agropastoral landscape. We conducted a year-long survey of the fruit-feeding butterfly fauna of four sacred groves and two forest reserves in the moist semi-deciduous forest zone of Ghana to characterize resident species diversity and complementarity among communities. Joint analysis of frugivorous butterfly diversity at these six forest fragments, which ranged in size from 6 to 5000 ha, was used to evaluate the conservation potential of these ancient indigenous reserves. A total of 6836 individuals were trapped across all sites, representing 79 species and five subfamilies. Community diversity was characterized in terms of, (a) number of species accumulated versus sampling effort, (b) rarefied species richness, (c) nonparametric richness estimates, (d) species evenness, (e) Simpson's Index of Diversity, and (f) complementarity of communities. Diversity of the fruit-feeding butterfly communities, quantified in terms of both species evenness and rarefied species richness, was higher at the larger forest reserves than at the small sacred forest groves. Additionally, although all sites had species trapped only at that site, the 5000-ha forest reserve harbored a resident community that was clearly distinctive from and more diverse than the other communities including the other forest reserve. Hence, our findings add to the burgeoning body of data that indicates large reserves are the foundation of successful conservation programs. Nonetheless, we found these small forest patches contribute to biodiversity conservation in at least three ways and these are identified and discussed. We also identify a number of species that appear more or less vulnerable to dynamics of forest fragmentation based on changes in their relative abundance across sites and we interpret these data in the context of potential indicator species and theoretical predictions of at-risk species.		Rose Hulman Inst Technol, Dept Appl Biol & Biomed Engn, Terre Haute, IN 47803 USA; Forestry Res Inst Ghana, Kumasi, Ghana; [Bossart, JL] Rose Hulman Inst Technol, Dept Appl Biol & Biomed Engn, Terre Haute, IN 47803 USA								44							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000236032000023		
J	Subramanian, K. A.; Sivaramakrishnan, K. G.; Gadgil, Madhav								Impact of riparian land use on stream insects of Kudremukh National Park, Karnataka state, India								JOURNAL OF INSECT SCIENCE				5						49	10.1093/jis/5.1.49			DEC 31 2005	2005	The impact of riparian land use on the stream insect communities was studied at Kudremukh National Park located within Western Ghats, a tropical biodiversity hotspot in India. The diversity and community composition of stream insects varied across streams with different riparian land use types. The rarefied family and generic richness was highest in streams with natural semi evergreen forests as riparian vegetation. However, when the streams had human habitations and areca nut plantations as riparian land use type, the rarefied richness was higher than that of streams with natural evergreen forests and grasslands. The streams with scrub lands and iron ore mining as the riparian land use had the lowest rarefied richness. Within a landscape, the streams with the natural riparian vegetation had similar community composition. However, streams with natural grasslands as the riparian vegetation, had low diversity and the community composition was similar to those of paddy fields. We discuss how stream insect assemblages differ due to varied riparian land use patterns, reflecting fundamental alterations in the functioning of stream ecosystems. This understanding is vital to conserve, manage and restore tropical riverine ecosystems.		Indian Inst Sci, Ctr Ecol Sci, Bangalore 560012, Karnataka, India; Madura Coll, Dept Zool, Madurai 625011, Tamil Nadu, India; IISc, Ctr Ecol Sci, Bangalore 560012, Karnataka, India; [Subramanian, K. A.] Indian Inst Sci, Ctr Ecol Sci, Bangalore 560012, Karnataka, India								16							Entomology	WOS:000238706300004		
J	Cleary, DFR; Becking, LE; de Voogd, NJ; Renema, W; de Beer, M; van Soest, RWM; Hoeksema, BW								Variation in the diversity and composition of benthic taxa as a function of distance offshore, depth and exposure in the Spermonde Archipelago, Indonesia								ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE				65	3			557	570		10.1016/j.ecss.2005.06.025			NOV 2005	2005	The aims of this study are to compare cross-shelf variation in diversity and community composition of four benthic taxa (sea urchins, sponges, corals and foraminifera) in the reefs of the Spermonde Archipelago, Indonesia, and relate this variation to cross-shelf environmental parameters, i.e. distance offshore, depth and exposure to oceanic currents. Rarefied species richness and Shannon's H' varied unimodally with the distance offshore and depth for all taxa (except sea urchins) and were highest at intermediate distances offshore and depths. There was no significant association between evenness and distance offshore. Evenness did, however, vary with depth and exposure. Overall, models using distance offshore, depth and exposure explained most of the variation in sponge and coral diversity but substantially less variation in foraminifera diversity. Variation in composition depended on distance offshore, depth and exposure although the relative importance of these variables differed among taxa. Depth was the most important parameter for sponges, corals and foraminifera but not for sea urchins. Sponge and coral assemblages differed markedly from in-to-off-shore but there was relatively little variation in foraminifera assemblages with most foraminifera species having broad cross-shelf distributions. Foraminifera assemblages on the contrary differed markedly between exposed and sheltered reef environments; species in exposed reef environments, for example, consisted of species with distinct strategies for coping with the increased hydrodynamic energy. In summary, this study shows that benthic taxa in the Spermonde are distributed along continuous gradients (in-to-off-shore and shallow-to-deep) in addition to occupying discrete habitats related to reef exposure. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd.		Natl Museum Nat Hist, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands; Univ Amsterdam, Inst Biodivers & Ecosyst Dynam, NL-1090 GT Amsterdam, Netherlands; [Cleary, DFR] Natl Museum Nat Hist, POB 9517, NL-2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands								91							Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000232681500016		
J	Death, RG; Zimmermann, EM								Interaction between disturbance and primary productivity in determining stream invertebrate diversity								OIKOS				111	2			392	402		10.1111/j.0030-1299.2005.13799.x			NOV 2005	2005	Invertebrate diversity patterns were examined in 10 streams that differed in substrate disturbance rates, in Taranaki, New Zealand, between April 1999 and January 2000. Two sites on each stream were sampled, one under native forest canopy where light was postulated to limit periphyton growth and a similar site 225-3800 m downstream in open grassland. Periphyton biomass was considerably higher at open stable sites than at closed or unstable sites. Associated with the higher algal biomass, species number and total abundance of animals were higher at open canopy sites. Species number exhibited a negative linear relationship with disturbance but only at open sites. In contrast, rarefied species richness exhibited a negative linear relationship with disturbance at both open and closed sites. This was a result of communities at the more disturbed sites being numerically dominated by only a few taxa compared to the more evenly distributed communities at stable sites. The observed patterns provide little support for contemporary diversity disturbance models but suggest diversity of invertebrates in streams is a function of time since the last disturbance, mediated through recovery of the food base in autotrophic streams.		Massey Univ, Inst Nat Resources, Palmerston North, New Zealand; [Death, RG] Massey Univ, Inst Nat Resources, Private Bag 11-222, Palmerston North, New Zealand								73							Ecology	WOS:000232979300019		
J	Lambert, TD; Malcolm, JR; Zimmerman, BL								Variation in small mammal species richness by trap height and trap type in southeastern Amazonia								JOURNAL OF MAMMALOGY				86	5			982	990		10.1644/1545-1542(2005)86[982:VISMSR]2.0.CO;2			OCT 2005	2005	Despite its biological richness, the rodent and marsupial fauna of many parts of the Amazon Basin remains poorly known and the efficacy of different methods in assessing its diversity are poorly understood. We present results of small mammal trapping at a previously unsurveyed site in the Xingu Basin of the southeastern Amazon, Par, Brazil; provide details on a new method For arboreal trapping; and compare species richness among traps at different heights and between different trap types. Mammals were livetrapped at 3 trap heights: ground, understory (1-3 in above ground), and canopy (mean height = 11.5 in +/- 3.2 SD, range = 4.8-16.8 in, n = 76 trap stations). We recorded 1,769 captures of 1,178 individuals of 8 marsupial and 17 rodent species in 38,090 trap-nights (or 19,320 station-nights, where a station-night consisted of I Sherman and I Tomahawk live trap at l height for I night). Overall trap Success was 6.1 individuals per 100 station-nights; success by trap position was 9.0% for ground (7,850 station-nights), 4.7% for understory (7,850 station-nights), and 2.9% for canopy (3,490 station-nights). Success by trap type was 4.7% for Shermans and 5.9% for Tomahawks, with Tomahawk traps showing a more rapid accumulation of species. Rarefied species accumulation curves showed little improvement with the inclusion of canopy trapping, which we attribute to high variability in the development of vertical structure at the site. We suggest that in areas with low and often-broken canopies, only ground and understory traps need be employed for long-term studies;, however, some form of canopy trapping should be used during initial Surveys so that the utility of arboreal trapping can be evaluated.		Conservat Int, Brazil Program, Kayapo Project, Washington, DC 20036 USA; Univ Toronto, Fac Forestry, Ctr Earth Sci, Toronto, ON M5S 3B3, Canada; Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, BCI Unit 0948, APO, AA 34002 USA; [Lambert, TD] Smithsonian Trop Res Inst, BCI Unit 0948, APO, AA 34002 USA								55							Zoology	WOS:000232875400017		
J	Feer, F; Hingrat, Y								Effects of forest fragmentation on a dung beetle community in French Guiana								CONSERVATION BIOLOGY				19	4			1103	1112		10.1111/j.1523-1739.2005.00087.x			AUG 2005	2005	Fragmentation is the most common disturbance induced by humans in tropical forests. Some insect groups are particularly suitable for studying the effects of fragmentation on animal communities because they are taxonomically and ecologically homogenous. We investigated the effects of forest fragmentation on a dung beetle species community in the forest archipelago created in 1994-1995 by the dam of Petit Saut, French Guiana. We set and baited an equal number of pitfall traps for dung beetles on three mainland sites and seven island sites. The sites ranged from 1.1 to 38 ha. In 250 trap days, we captured 50 species in 19 genera. Diversity indices were high (2.18-4.06). The lowest diversity was on the small islands and one mainland site. Species richness and abundance were positively related to fragment area but not to distance from mainland or distance to the larger island. The islands had lower species richness and population than mainland forest, but rarefied species richness was relatively invariant across sites. There was a marked change in species composition with decreasing fragment that was not caused by the presence of a common fauna of disturbed area species on islands. Small islands differed from larger islands, which did not differ significantly from mainland sites. Partial correlation analyses suggested that species richness and abundance of dung beetle species were positively related to the number of species of nonflying mammals and the density index of howler monkeys (Alouatta seniculus), two parameters positively related to fragment area.		Museum Natl Hist Nat, Ecol Lab, CNRS, UMR 5176, F-91800 Brunoy, France; Emirats Ctr Wildlife Propagat, Missour, Boulemane, Morocco; [Feer, F] Museum Natl Hist Nat, Ecol Lab, CNRS, UMR 5176, 4 Ave Petit Chateau, F-91800 Brunoy, France								50							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000231118600017		
J	Kosnik, MA								Changes in Late Cretaceous-early Tertiary benthic marine assemblages: analyses from the North American coastal plain shallow shelf								PALEOBIOLOGY				31	3			459	479		10.1666/0094-8373(2005)031[0459:CILCTB]2.0.CO;2			SUM 2005	2005	The Mesozoic-Cenozoic transition is generally seen as a pivotal time in the evolution of benthic marine assemblages but the details of the timing and drivers of these changes are poorly known. The Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains of the United States contain assemblages preserved as original aragonitic and calcitic material in unconsolidated sediments. This makes coastal plain assemblages ideally suited to paleoecological analyses. Data derived from bulk samples of the Coffee Formation (lower/middle Campanian: Mississippi) as well as published faunal lists from comparable samples of the Severn (Maastrichtian: Maryland), Providence (Maastrichtian: Georgia and Alabama), Stone City (Eocene: Texas), and Gosport (Eocene: Alabama) Formations are used to assess changes in taxonomic diversity and ecomorphological group (life habit and trophic group) composition through this time interval. These analyses find a significant decrease in rarefied-sample species richness from the Campanian through the Eocene, but no change in evenness. With the notable exception of the Stone City Formation, increases in carnivore (neogastropod) richness and abundance occur before the Campanian. Epifaunal suspension-feeding species are a smaller proportion of the sample richness in Eocene samples than in Cretaceous samples. Decreased relative epifaunal suspension-feeder biomass but unchanged relative numbers of epifaunal suspension-feeder individuals suggests a relative decrease in epifaunal suspension-feeder size. Infaunal suspension feeders increase in richness and abundance through the interval. The proportion of drilled bivalves and gastropods does not change through the interval. Changes found in the structure of local shallow-shelf benthic assemblages from the Campanian through the Eocene are generally small relative to the variability between samples. Formation-level variation between assemblages is high relative to the magnitude of the temporal signal, emphasizing the need for investigators to include multiple formations per interval in tests of temporal trends.		Univ Chicago, Dept Geophys Sci, Chicago, IL 60637 USA; [Kosnik, MA] James Cook Univ N Queensland, Dept Marine Biol & Aquaculture, Ctr Coral Reef Biodivers, Townsville, Qld 4811, Australia								22							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Evolutionary Biology; Paleontology	WOS:000231511700009		
J	Ilmonen, J; Paasivirta, L								Benthic macrocrustacean and insect assemblages in relation to spring habitat characteristics: patterns in abundance and diversity								HYDROBIOLOGIA				533				99	113		10.1007/s10750-004-2399-4			JAN 15 2005	2005	We studied variation in benthic macrocrustacean and insect assemblages in relation to spring habitat characteristics in six springs located in a single groundwater area in south-west Finland. We defined five habitat types in the studied springs according to water flow and benthic substrate characteristics: minerogenic brooks, organogenic brooks, helocrenes, floating moss carpets and limnocrene pools. Most studied invertebrate orders, as well as individual taxa, showed differences in relative abundances between the habitat types, but the most common taxa occurred in all springs and habitat types. The studied macroinvertebrates were most abundant in the moss carpet sites and least abundant in the pool sites, but the difference was not statistically significant. We did not observe significant differences in mean taxonomic richness per sample between habitat classes. The observed taxonomic richness in pooled samples of habitat classes was highest in moss carpet habitat and lowest in pool habitat, and the rarefied richness estimate was lowest in pool habitat. Benthic macrocrustacean and insect assemblages varied more between habitat types than between individual springs. In an Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling ordination analysis, spring brook sites were separated from the moss carpet and pool sites, whereas helocrene sites were widely scattered among sites in other habitat classes. The strongest ecological gradients were related to water flow and the presence of minerogenic substrate, separating lentic and lotic habitats. Abundances of moss and coarse detritus accounted for most of the within-class variation. We identified several indicator species for minerogenic and organogenic brooks and for moss carpet and pool habitats, but none for the helocrenes. We found several occurrences of two crenobiont insect species considered threatened in Finland. We suggest that combined studies on macroinvertebrate and bryophyte assemblages would be a powerful approach in assessing the biodiversity of springs.		Finnish Environm Inst, FIN-000251 Helsinki, Finland; Finnish Inst Fisheries & Environm, FIN-21610 Kirjala, Finland; [Ilmonen, J] Finnish Environm Inst, POB 140, FIN-000251 Helsinki, Finland								56							Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000226928900009		
J	Bossart, JL; Opuni-Frimpong, E; Kuudaar, S; Nkrumah, E								Fruit-feeding butterfly communities of forest 'islands' in Ghana: Survey completeness and correlates of spatial diversity								AFRICAN BIODIVERSITY: MOLECULES, ORGANISMS, ECOSYSTEMS								151	158		10.1007/0-387-24320-8_11			2005	2005	We conducted a year long survey of the fruit-feeding butterfly fauna of sacred forest groves and forest reserves of Ghana. About one-third of all fruit-feeding species recorded for Ghana were trapped, but our total sample had not yet reached the point of species saturation. Rarefied species richness was higher in the larger forest reserves than in the small sacred groves, as predicted by species-area relationship theory. Bebearia and Euriphene showed the greatest decline in species richness across sites, demonstrating that common, widespread species can be vulnerable to fragmentation.		Rose Hulman Inst Technol, ABBE, Terre Haute, IN 47803 USA; [Bossart, JL] Rose Hulman Inst Technol, ABBE, Terre Haute, IN 47803 USA				5th International Symposium on Tropical Biology	MAY, 2004	Entomol Dept; DFG; DAAD	Alexander Koenig Zool Res Museum, Bonn, GERMANY	3							Biodiversity Conservation; Zoology	WOS:000231504700012		
J	Gratwicke, B; Speight, MR								Effects of habitat complexity on Caribbean marine fish assemblages								MARINE ECOLOGY PROGRESS SERIES				292				301	310		10.3354/meps292301			2005	2005	Sets of artificial reefs were replicated in 5 bays off Tortola in the British Virgin Islands to investigate the effects of habitat complexity on fish assemblages. Increasing percentage hard substrate and the number of small reef holes increased fish abundance on reefs. The observed number of species (S-obs) occurring on each reef increased with increasing rugosity, variety of growth forms, percentage hard substrate, and variety of refuge hole sizes. A rarefied or abundance -corrected species richness measure (S,a,e) was calculated to take the varying fish abundances into account. After this correction, rugosity was the only variable that significantly increased fish species-richness. Experimental reefs of different height (20 and 60 cm) did not have significantly different fish abundance or species richness. The presence of long-spined sea urchins Diadema antillarum increased Sob, and total fish abundance on artificial rock-reefs and in seagrass beds, but the effect was most pronounced in seagrass beds where shelter was a strongly limiting factor. These results indicate that complex habitats or animals such as D. antillarum that provide shelter to fish are essential for maintaining fish biodiversity at local scales. The most important aspects of complexity are rugosity, hard substrate and small refuge holes. Artificial reefs may be used to mitigate habitat damage in impacted areas, and if management objectives are to increase local fish abundance and species richness, the reefs should provide a stable substrate where this is unavailable, have a rugose surface with many small refuge holes, and have a variety of growth forms.		Univ Oxford, Dept Zool, S Parks Rd, Oxford OX1 3JA, England; [Gratwicke, B] Natl Fish & Wildlife Fdn, 1120 Connecticut Ave,NW,Suite 900, Washington, DC 20036 USA								188							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Oceanography	WOS:000229927900026		
J	Buddle, CM; Beguin, J; Bolduc, E; Mercado, A; Sackett, TE; Selby, RD; Varady-Szabo, H; Zeran, RM								The importance and use of taxon sampling curves for comparative biodiversity research with forest arthropod assemblages								CANADIAN ENTOMOLOGIST				137	1			120	127					JAN-FEB 2005	2005	For over three decades, the importance of taxon sampling curves for comparative biodiversity studies has been repeatedly stated. However, many entomologists (both within Canada and worldwide) continue to publish studies without standardizing their data to take sampling effort into account. We present a case study to illustrate the importance of such standardization, using the collection of spiders (Araneae) by pitfall traps as model data. Data were analyzed using rarefaction to represent one example of a taxon sampling curve, and by a variety of traditional diversity indices to describe alpha diversity. Raw species richness and single-index diversity measures (Shannon-Wiener, Simpson's, and Fisher's alpha) provided contradictory results. Rarefied species richness standardized to the number of individuals collected enabled more accurate comparisons of diversity and revealed when sampling was insufficient. Focusing on arthropods occurring in forested ecosystems, we also examined the use of taxon sampling curves in current literature by reviewing 133 published articles from 14 journals. Only 26% of the published articles in our review used a taxon sampling curve, and raw species richness and the Shannon-Wiener index of diversity were the most commonly used estimates. There is clearly a need to modify how alpha diversity is measured and compared for arthropod biodiversity studies. We recommend the abandonment of both raw species richness and single-index measures of diversity, and reiterate the need to use rarefaction or a related technique that allows for meaningful comparisons of species richness while taking into account sampling effort.		McGill Univ, Dept Nat Resources Sci, Ste Anne De Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada; [Buddle, CM] McGill Univ, Dept Nat Resources Sci, Macdonald Campus,21,111 Lakeshore Rd, Ste Anne De Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, Canada								80							Entomology	WOS:000227929900011		
J	Rolstad, J; Stersdal, M; Gjerde, I; Storaunet, KO								Wood-decaying fungi in boreal forest:: are species richness and abundances influenced by small-scale spatiotemporal distribution of dead wood?								BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION				117	5			539	555		10.1016/j.biocon.2003.09.008			JUN 2004	2004	We tested whether the spatiotemporal distribution of Norway spruce (Picea abies) logs influenced species richness and abundances of wood-decaying fungi in two 2-km(2) boreal forest study sites in southeastern Norway. According to the random sample null-hypothesis equally large subsamples of logs should be equally efficient in sampling fungi from a regional species pool. Based on 0.25-ha plots at I-ha grid resolution, we compared plots with high and low densities of 'new logs' (decay stages 1-5) and plots with,old logs' (decay stages 5-8) present or absent. Based on visible sporocarps, 45 fungus species, including 15 redlisted, were identified among 4151 logs. When rarefying species accumulation curves to the same number of logs, we found no difference in species richness between old forest plots having high and low densities of new logs, or between plots where old logs were present or absent. Curves from young forest revealed fewer species than in old forest. Multiple regression analysis of six redlisted and six common species corroborated the rarefaction analysis in showing that the probability of occurrence was independent of the spatiotemporal distribution of logs for all but two common species. Aside from the fact that more dead wood harboured more wood-decaying fungi, we conclude that the spatiotemporal distribution of dead wood was of minor importance in determining species richness and abundances at the scales of < I ha and < 100 years. This suggests that wood-decaying fungi are not dispersal-limited at these scales, and it offers an optional element in forest management. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.		Agr Univ Norway, Norwegian Forest Res Inst, N-1432 As, Norway; Norwegian Forest Res Inst, N-5244 Fana, Norway; [Rolstad, J] Agr Univ Norway, Norwegian Forest Res Inst, Hoyskoleveien 12, N-1432 As, Norway								46							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000221018800009		
J	Leponce, M; Theunis, L; Delabie, JHC; Roisin, Y								Scale dependence of diversity measures in a leaf-litter ant assemblage								ECOGRAPHY				27	2			253	267		10.1111/j.0906-7590.2004.03715.x			FEB 2004	2004	A reliable characterization of community diversity and composition, necessary to allow inter-site comparisons and to monitor changes, is especially difficult to reach in speciose invertebrate communities. Spatial components of the sampling design (sampling interval, extent and grain) as well as temporal variations of species density affect the measures of diversity (species richness S, Buzas and Gibson's evenness E and Shannon's heterogeneity H). Our aim was to document the small-scale spatial distribution of leaf litter ants in a subtropical dry forest of the Argentinian Chaco and analyze how the community characterization was best achieved with a minimal sampling effort. The work was based on the recent standardized protocol for collecting ants of the leaf litter ("A.L.L.": 20 samples at intervals of 10 m). To evaluate the consistency of the sampling method in time and space, the selected site was first subject to a preliminary transect, then submitted after a 9-month interval to an 8-fold oversampling campaign (160 samples at interval of 1.25 m). Leaf litter ants were extracted from elementary 1 m(2) quadrats with Winkler apparatus. An increase in the number of samples collected increased S and decreased E but did not affect much H. The sampling interval and extent did not affect S and H beyond a distance of 10 m between samples. An increase of the sampling grain had a similar effect on S than a corresponding increase of the number of samples collected, but caused a proportionaly greater increase of H. The density of species m(-2) varied twofold after a 9-month interval; the effect on S could only be partially corrected by rarefaction. The measure of species numerical dominance was little affected by the season. A single standardized A.L.L. transect with Winkler samples collected <45% of the species present in the assemblage. All frequent species were included but their relative frequency was not always representative. A log series distribution of species occurrences was oberved. Fisher's alpha and Shannon's H were the most appropriate diversity indexes. The former was useful to rarefy or abundify S and the latter was robust against sample size effects. Both parametric and Soberon and Llorente extrapolation methods outperformed non-parametric methods and yielded a fair estimate of total species richness along the transect, a minimum value of S for the habitat sampled.		Inst Royal Sci Nat Belgique, Sect Conservat Biol, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium; CEPLAC, UESC, Lab Mirmecol, Ibabuna, BA, Brazil; Free Univ Brussels, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium; [Leponce, M] Inst Royal Sci Nat Belgique, Sect Conservat Biol, Rue Vautier 29, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium								57							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000220549600013		
J	Love, JW; Taylor, CM								Patterns of stream fish diversity across five drainages in Mississippi								SOUTHEASTERN NATURALIST				3	4			637	644		10.1656/1528-7092(2004)003[0637:POSFDA]2.0.CO;2			2004	2004	Fish assemblages were sampled from streams in Mississippi (fall 2000-2003) allowing a comparison of fish species diversity across drainages and years. Because species diversity is dependent on sample size, we used 14 rarefaction to compare richness and evenness across drainages at a standardized abundance. Rarefied richness was higher in northern drainages (Tennessee, Tombigbee. Lower Mississippi North) than in southern drainages (Pearl, Pascagoula, Lower Mississippi South). Rarefied evenness did not differ across drainages. Diversity and species composition at localities were relatively similar across time. Local diversity was not associated with regional diversity supporting the idea that local ecological factors limit the number of coexisting species. Higher diversity of the Lower Mississippi North. Tennessee. and Tombigbee drainages is strongly related to their biogeographical history.		Mississippi State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Taylor, CM] Mississippi State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA								5							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000226358500006		
J	Munguia, P								Successional patterns on pen shell communities at local and regional scales								JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY				73	1			64	74		10.1111/j.1365-2656.2004.00778.x			JAN 2004	2004	1.I present a successional study of marine organisms on pen shells (Atrina rigida) at different regions of St Joe Bay, Florida. By incorporating measures of relative abundance and assembly time I show how the relationship between local and regional diversity develops through different successional stages. 2. The results showed that, with time, motile species richness increases significantly while evenness indices remain high and constant. Sessile species, on the other hand, increased in both species richness and evenness through time. 3. For the motile species, regions seem to remain different while local saturation is observed. These results suggest that this group is under species-sorting: species are mobile enough that recruits and adult dispersal within a region maintain differences among regions, while local communities are saturated. 4. For the sessile species, the local-regional relationship was unsaturated at all sampling dates with both untransformed and rarefied data. Regions are initially similar in community structure, then differ through time to become similar again at the last sampling date. This may reflect a priority effect: propagules that arrive at a shell may initially exert influence on the species composition on a shell, so that at intermediate sampling times regions differ in community structure. However, at the last sampling there were no differences detected among regions, suggesting that dispersal distances might be larger for this group of species. 5. These results suggest the following. (1) The degree of species saturation will depend on the successional stage of a community. (2) Incorporating species abundances (i.e. through rarefaction or other techniques) demonstrates the role of species commonness or rarity in determining patterns of community diversity at different scales. (3) Depending on the group of species studied, the size of the region will vary and will influence the local-regional dynamics: the perceived region for sessile species may be larger than for motile species.		Florida State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA; AC, Inst Biol Ecol & Conservac, Las Fuentes 45070, Zapopan, Mexico; [Munguia, P] Florida State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, B-157, Tallahassee, FL 32306 USA								37							Ecology; Zoology	WOS:000187847400007		
J	Brehm, G; Sssenbach, D; Fiedler, K								Unique elevational diversity patterns of geometrid moths in an Andean montane rainforest								ECOGRAPHY				26	4			456	466		10.1034/j.1600-0587.2003.03498.x			AUG 2003	2003	Alpha-diversity of geometrid moths was investigated along an elevational gradient in a tropical montane rainforest in southern Ecuador. Diversity was measured using 1) species number, 2) extrapolated species number (Chao 1 estimator), 3) rarefied species number, and 4) Fisher's alpha. When applied to the empirical data set, I and 2 strongly depended on the sample size, whereas 3 and 4 were suitable and reliable measures of local diversity. At single sites, up to 292 species were observed, and extrapolation estimates range from 244 to 445 species. Values for Fisher's alpha are among the highest ever measured for this moth family, and range from 69 to 131 per site. In contrast to theoretical assumptions and empirical studies in other regions of the world, the diversity of geometrid moths remained consistently high along the entire gradient studied. Diversity measures correlated with neither altitude nor ambient temperature. The large subfamily Ennominae has previously been assumed to be a group that occurs mainly at low and medium elevations. However, no decline in diversity was found in the study area. The diversity of the other large subfamily, Larentiinae, even increased from the lowest elevations and was highest at elevations above 1800 m. The roles of a decreasing diversity of potential host-plants, decreasing structural complexity of the vegetation, increasingly unfavourable climatic conditions and possible physiological adaptations in determining herbivore species richness are discussed. A relatively low predation pressure might be an advantage of high-altitude habitats. The physiognomy of the Andes (folded mountains, large areas at high altitudes) might also have allowed speciation events and the development of a species-rich high-altitude fauna. There is evidence that the species-richness of other groups of herbivorous insects in the same area declines as altitude increases. This emphasises difficulties that are associated with biodiversity indicator groups, and calls for caution when making generalisations from case studies.		Univ Bayreuth, Dept Anim Ecol 1, POB 101251, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany; [Brehm, G] Univ Bayreuth, Dept Anim Ecol 1, POB 101251, D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany								111							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology	WOS:000185481900008		
J	Melo, AS; Niyogi, DK; Matthaei, CD; Townsend, CR								Resistance, resilience, and patchiness of invertebrate assemblages in native tussock and pasture streams in New Zealand after a hydrological disturbance								CANADIAN JOURNAL OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC SCIENCES				60	6			731	739		10.1139/F03-061			JUN 2003	2003	We generated hydrological disturbances to investigate the role of disturbance in New Zealand streams in two land uses: native tussock grasslands and exotic pasture catchments. We tested whether physical differences in streambed structure confer higher resistance and resilience in tussock sites than in pasture sites. We also investigated changes in patchiness (at spatial scales larger than 0.06 m(2)) caused by the disturbance. Invertebrate abundance decreased immediately after the disturbance. Species density remained unchanged, but species richness (rarefied) increased. Eight days after the disturbance event, abundance and species richness (rarefied) were similar to those of samples collected immediately before the disturbance. Resistance (measured as decrease in abundance) and resilience (measured as recovery within 8 days) did not differ significantly between the land uses. Patchiness increased in both stream types immediately after the disturbance but decreased to predisturbance levels after 8 days. Disturbance caused a redistribution of individuals among patches, some receiving individuals, others losing individuals, and some remaining unchanged. Our results conform with predictions of the patch dynamics concept and are consistent with results of studies of natural disturbance caused by floods.		Univ Otago, Dept Zool, Dunedin, New Zealand; Univ Estadual Campinas, Curso Posgrad Ecol, Museum Nat Hist, Inst Biol, BR-13083970 Campinas, SP, Brazil; [Melo, AS] Univ Fed Goias, Dept Biol Geral, ICB1, CP 131, BR-74001970 Goiania, Go, Brazil								37							Fisheries; Marine & Freshwater Biology	WOS:000184735200010		
J	Cintra-Buenrostro, CE; Foster, MS; Meldahl, KH								Response of nearshore marine assemblages to global change: a comparison of molluscan assemblages in Pleistocene and modern rhodolith beds in the southwestern Gulf of California, Mexico								PALAEOGEOGRAPHY PALAEOCLIMATOLOGY PALAEOECOLOGY				183	3-4			299	320	PII S0031-0182(02)00248-1	10.1016/S0031-0182(02)00248-1			JUL 20 2002	2002	Marine life in the Gulf of California has experienced large changes in climate and sea level during the past several hundred thousand years. To evaluate the potential effects of these changes on marine mollusc species richness and similarity, modern molluscan assemblages associated with rhodolith beds in the southwestern Gulf of California were compared to their fossil counterparts from the oxygen isotope substage 5e (I.S. 5e) interglacial period, approximately 125 000 yr ago. A combined total of 219 taxa were found in I.S. 5e and modern assemblages. In general, raw and rarefied richnesses were significantly greater in I.S. 5e assemblages than in modem assemblages, and differences between assemblages suggest I.S. 5e are time-averaged deposits. Similarities between I.S. 5e and modern assemblages were lower than similarities within I.S. 5e assemblages. The results indicate that molluscan assemblages in the Gulf of California experienced some changes in taxonomic richness and composition during the environmental fluctuations of the past 125 000 yr, but not large scale taxonomic reorganization. The precise amount of taxonomic change is difficult to quantify due to time averaging. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.		Moss Landing Marine Labs, Moss Landing, CA 95039 USA; MiraCosta Coll, Oceanside, CA 92056 USA; [Cintra-Buenrostro, CE] Univ Arizona, Dept Geosci, Ctr Estudios Almejas Muertas, Gould Simpson Bldg,Room 334,1040 E 4th St, Tucson, AZ 85721 USA								13							Geography, Physical; Geosciences, Multidisciplinary; Paleontology	WOS:000176723500008		
J	Forbes, SP; Schauwecker, T; Weiher, E								Rarefaction does not eliminate the species richness-biomass relationship in calcareous blackland prairies								JOURNAL OF VEGETATION SCIENCE				12	4			525	532		10.2307/3237004			AUG 2001	2001	Relationships between species richness and biomass are common. but the causes remain controversial. It has been suggested that a hump-shaped relationship may be an artifact of few individuals in both low and high biomass samples. We used rarefaction to standardize species richness to a constant number of individuals in 99 quadrat samples from relict calcareous prairies. Animal ecologists have long used rarefaction to standardize species richness to a constant number of individuals. The expected species richness of each quadrat was determined for 10, 25, 50, 100 and 150 individual plant ramets using the EcoSim program which resampled the data in each quadrat 1000 times. Because we had few samples with biomass over 300 g/m(2), our data showed a positive relationship between species richness and biomass. The relationship was largely unaffected by rarefaction. Even at the most extreme case of rarefying to 10 individual ramets, the relationship was clear. Monte Carlo covariance tests did not change the shape of the richness-biomass relationship and significant correlations between observed species richness and rarified species richness suggest that the number of individuals had negligible effects on richness patterns. Because the data had no strong declining phase, these results may not apply to the declining phase of a humped relationship. The results are discussed with reference to other methods of standardizing species richness. Most importantly, we suggest that expressing species richness per number of individuals is inappropriate and may lead to incorrect conclusions.		Univ Wisconsin, Dept Biol, Eau Claire, WI 54702 USA; Mississippi State Univ, Dept Biol Sci, Mississippi State, MS 39762 USA; [Weiher, E] Univ Wisconsin, Dept Biol, Eau Claire, WI 54702 USA								15							Plant Sciences; Ecology; Forestry	WOS:000171984200009		
J	Helenius, J; Holopainen, JK; Huusela-Veistola, E; Kurppa, S; Pokki, P; Varis, AL								Ground beetle (Coleoptera, Carabidae) diversity in Finnish arable land								AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD SCIENCE IN FINLAND				10	3			261	276		10.23986/afsci.5699			2001	2001	Carabid data compiled from six independent studies, consisting of 97 799 individuals trapped by pitfalls from Finnish agricultural fields and identified to I 11 species were analyzed. Shannon-Wiener H' diversity index was typically around 2.5 and expected species number rarefied to 600 trapped individuals was typically around 30 species. The five most abundant species accounted for 42% of the total catch, and the thirty most abundant species made up 98% of the total catch. Percentage similarities among the assemblages by PS-index were from 16% to 48%. In comparison to published data about carabid diversity in boreal forests, which form the dominating habitat matrix in which Finnish farmland is embedded as relatively small patches, arable fields harbor more species rich assemblages, with more even rank-abundance distributions but variable species composition. Importance of landscape (regional) level, instead of spatial level of crop fields, in understanding carabid diversity in farmland is discussed. Inclusion of carabids into monitoring schemes of agro-biodiversity at landscape level is suggested.		Univ Helsinki, Dept Appl Biol, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland; MTT Agrifood Res Finland, Plant Prod Res, Plant Protect, FIN-31600 Jokioinen, Finland; [Helenius, J] Univ Helsinki, Dept Appl Biol, POB 27, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland								7							Agriculture, Multidisciplinary; Food Science & Technology	WOS:000174435500012		
J	McCabe, DJ; Gotelli, NJ								Effects of disturbance frequency, intensity, and area on assemblages of stream macroinvertebrates								OECOLOGIA				124	2			270	279		10.1007/s004420000369			AUG 2000	2000	Disturbance frequency, intensity, and areal extent may influence the effects of disturbance on biological communities. Furthermore, these three factors may have interacting effects on biological diversity. We manipulated the frequency, intensity, and area of disturbance in a full-factorial design on artificial substrates and measured responses of benthic macroinvertebrates in a northern Vermont stream. Macroinvertebrate abundance was lower in all disturbance treatments than in the undisturbed control. As in most other studies in streams, species density (number of species/sample) was lower in disturbed treatments than in undisturbed controls. However, species density is very sensitive to total abundance of a sample, which is usually reduced by disturbance. We used a rarefaction method to compare species richness based on an equivalent number of individuals. In rarefied samples, species richness was higher in all eight disturbed treatments than in the undisturbed control, with significant increases in species richness for larger areas and greater intensities of disturbance. Increases in species richness in response to disturbance were consistent within patches, among patches with similar disturbance histories, and among patches with differing disturbance histories. These results provide some support for Huston's dynamic-equilibrium model but do not support the intermediate-disturbance hypothesis. Our analyses demonstrate that species richness and species density can generate opposite patterns of community response to disturbance. The interplay of abundance, species richness, and species density has been neglected in previous tests of disturbance models.		Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA; [McCabe, DJ] Univ Vermont, Dept Biol, Burlington, VT 05405 USA								246							Ecology	WOS:000088824100016		
J	Willott, SJ; Lim, DC; Compton, SG; Sutton, SL								Effects of selective logging on the butterflies of a Bornean rainforest								CONSERVATION BIOLOGY				14	4			1055	1065		10.1046/j.1523-1739.2000.98427.x			AUG 2000	2000	Selective logging has been the main cause of disturbance to tropical forests in Southeast Asia, so the extent to which biodiversity is maintained in selectively logged forest is of prime conservation importance. We compared the butterfly assemblages of Bornean primary rainforest to those of rainforest selectively logged 6 years previously. We sampled by means of replicated transects stratified into riverine and ridge forests and we included roads in the logged forest. There was a three-fold variation in species richness and abundance over the 8-month sampling period. More species and individuals were observed in the logged forest, although between-replicate variability was high. Rarefied species richness was positively correlated with canopy openness within the range of disturbance levels encountered at our forest sites. Within families, there was no significant difference in the number of species between primary and logged forest. There was a significant difference in the relative abundance of species, but this was due largely to the abundance of one or two species. Community ordination separated the sites along a gradient of disturbance and revealed strong differences between riverine and ridge-forest butterfly assemblages in primary forest that were obscured in logged forest. There was no evidence that logging has resulted in a change in the composition of the butterfly assemblages from species with a local distribution to more widespread species. We conclude that at a logged forest site in close proximity to primary forest, low intensities of logging do not necessarily reduce the species richness or abundance of butterflies, although assemblage composition is changed.		Univ Leeds, Sch Biol, Ctr Biodivers & Conservat, Leeds LS2 9JT, W Yorkshire, England; Univ Manchester, Sch Geog, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England; Heigh Head, Lancaster LA2 7AU, England; [Willott, SJ] Univ Leeds, Sch Biol, Ctr Biodivers & Conservat, Leeds LS2 9JT, W Yorkshire, England								79							Biodiversity Conservation; Ecology; Environmental Sciences	WOS:000088442400016		
J	Willott, SJ								The effects of selective logging on the distribution of moths in a Bornean rainforest								PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				354	1391			1783	1790		10.1098/rstb.1999.0520			NOV 29 1999	1999	The effects of selective logging on the diversity and species composition of moths were investigated by sampling from multiple sites in primary forest, both understorey and canopy, and logged forest at Danum Valley, Sabah, Malaysia. The diversity of individual sites was similar, although rarefied species richness of logged forest was 17% lower than for primary forest (understorey and canopy combined). There was significant heterogeneity in faunal composition and measures of similarity (NESS index) among primary forest understorey sites which may be as great as those between primary understorey and logged forest. The lowest similarity values were between primary forest understorey and canopy, indicating a distinct canopy fauna. A number of species encountered in the logged forest were confined to, or more abundant in, the canopy of primary forest. Approximately 10% of species were confined to primary forest across a range of species' abundances, suggesting this is a minimum estimate for the number of species lost following logging. The importance of accounting for heterogeneity within primary forest and sampling in the canopy when measuring the effects of disturbance on tropical forest communities are emphasized.		Univ Manchester, Sch Geog, Manchester M13 9PL, Lancs, England; [Willott, SJ] Univ Leeds, Sch Biol, Ecol & Evolut Grp, Leeds LS2 9JT, W Yorkshire, England								58							Biology	WOS:000084108800006		
J	Janssens, F; Peeters, A; Tallowin, JRB; Bakker, JP; Bekker, RM; Fillat, F; Oomes, MJM								Relationship between soil chemical factors and grassland diversity								PLANT AND SOIL				202	1			69	78		10.1023/A:1004389614865			MAY 1998	1998	Many studies carried out during these last few years have focused on the factors influencing plant diversity in species-rich grasslands. This is due to the fact that these ecosystems, among the most diversified in temperate climates, are extremely threatened; in some areas, they have almost disappeared. The re-establishment of these habitats implies to know the living conditions of the associations to be recreated. Very often, the typical species of these communities have become so rarefied that the seed bank or the seed rain are not sufficient to recreate the plant community. Most of the time, to achieve the restoration of these communities, they have to be totally recreated by sowing. For the restoration or the maintenance of the community, the soil chemical characteristics have also to be appropriate or if not modified. This research tends to establish a relation between some soil chemical factors and the plant diversity of a great number of stations. This research has illuminated the relationship between soil extractable phosphorus and potassium and plant diversity. Over 5 mg of phosphorus per 100 g of dry soil (acetate + EDTA extraction), no station containing more than 20 species per 100 m(2) has been found. The highest number of species is found below the optimum content of the soil for plant nutrition (5-8 mg P/100 g). Concerning the potassium, the highest number of species is found at 20 mg/100, a value corresponcing to an optimum content of the soil for plant nutrition. High potassium contents, in opposition to phosphorus contents, are thus compatible with high values of diversity. Other factors (i.e. pH, organic matter, total nitrogen and calcium) do not show so clearly a relation with plant diversity. Excess of N-NO3 is known for its negative effect on the diversity of plant communities. In these environments, apart from the atmospheric deposits which can be important in some areas, N-NO3 is derived mainly from the symbiotic fixation of atmospheric nitrogen by legumes as well as from the mineralization of the organic matter of the soil. It is possible that, when in small quantities, the available soil phosphorus could be a limiting factor of the N-NO3 supply by these two sources. In this hypothesis, nitrogen would remain the main element limitating plant diversity but its availability would be controlled by phosphorus.		Catholic Univ Louvain, Lab Ecol Prairies, B-1348 Louvain La Neuve, Belgium; Inst Grassland & Environm Res, Wyke, England; CSIC, Inst Pirenaico Ecol, Jaca, Spain; Univ Groningen, Lab Plant Ecol, Haren, Netherlands; DLO, Res Inst & Soil Fertil, NL-6700 AA Wageningen, Netherlands; [Janssens, F] Catholic Univ Louvain, Lab Ecol Prairies, B-1348 Louvain La Neuve, Belgium								354							Agronomy; Plant Sciences; Soil Science	WOS:000075847300008		
J	Didham, RK; Lawton, JH; Hammond, PM; Eggleton, P								Trophic structure stability and extinction dynamics of beetles (Coleoptera) in tropical forest fragments								PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY B-BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES				353	1367			437	451		10.1098/rstb.1998.0221			MAR 29 1998	1998	A first analysis of the stability of trophic structure following tropical forest fragmentation was performed in an experimentally fragmented tropical forest landscape in Central Amazonia. A taxonomically and trophically diverse assemblage of 993 species of beetles was sampled from 920 m(2) of leaf litter at 46 sites, varying in distance from forest edge and fragment area. Beetle density increased significantly towards the forest: edge and showed non-linear changes with fragment area, due to the influx of numerous disturbed-area species into 10 ha and 1 ha fragments. There was a marked change in species composition with both decreasing distance from forest edge and decreasing fragment area, but surprisingly this change in composition was not accompanied by a change in species richness. Rarefied species richness did not vary significantly across any of the sites, indicating that local extinctions of deep forest species were balanced by equivalent colonization rates of disturbed-area species. The change in species composition with fragmentation was non-random across trophic groups. Proportions of predator species and xylophage species changed significantly with distance from forest edge, but no area-dependent changes in proportions of species in trophic groups were observed. Trophic structure was also analysed with respect to proportions of abundance in six trophic groups. Proportions of abundance of all trophic groups except xylomycetophages changed markedly with respect to both distance from forest edge and fragment area. Local extinction probabilities calculated far individual beetle species supported theoretical predictions of the differential susceptibility of higher trophic levels to extinction, and of changes in trophic structure following forest fragmentation. To reduce random effects due to sampling error, only abundant species (n greater than or equal to 46) were analysed for extinction probabilities, as defined by absence from samples. Of these common species, 27% had significantly higher probabilities of local extinction following fragmentation. The majority of these species were predators; 42% of all abundant predator species were significantly more likely to be absent from samples in forest fragments than in undisturbed forest. These figures are regarded as minimum estimates for the entire beetle assemblage because rarer species drill inevitably have higher extinction probabilities. Absolute loss of biodiversity will affect ecosystem process rates, but the differential loss of species from trophic groups will have an even greater destabilizing effect on food web structure and ecosystem function.		Nat Hist Museum, Dept Entomol, Biodivers Div, London SW7 5BD, England; Univ London Imperial Coll Sci Technol & Med, NERC, Ctr Populat Biol, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berks, England; INPA, Projeto Dinam Biol Fragmentos Florestais, BR-69011 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil; [Didham, RK] Univ Delaware, Dept Biol, Newark, DE 19716 USA								134							Biology	WOS:000073472400008		
J	Gilbert, GS; Clayton, MK; Handelsman, J; Parke, JL								Use of cluster and discriminant analyses to compare rhizosphere bacterial communities following biological perturbation								MICROBIAL ECOLOGY				32	2			123	147					SEP-OCT 1996	1996	We present an approach to comparing the diversity and composition of bacterial communities from different habitats and for identifying which members of a community are most affected by an introduced bacterium. We use this method to explore both previously published and new data from field and growth chamber experiments in which we isolated heterotrophic bacteria from samples of root-free soil, roots of nontreated soybean seedlings, and from the roots of soybean seedlings grown from Bacillus cereus UW85n1-treated seeds. We characterize bacterial isolates for 40 physiological attributes, and grouped the isolates hierarchically using two-stage density-linkage cluster analysis. Multivariate analysis of variance and discriminant analysis of the relative frequencies of the clusters in the soil and rhizosphere habitats were then used to determine whether there were differences among the bacterial communities from the various habitats, and which of the clusters were most useful in discriminating among the communities. We used rarefied estimates of richness as a measure of community diversity in the various habitats. Introduction of UW85n1 affected the composition and/or diversity of rhizosphere communities in three of four experiments.		UNIV WISCONSIN,DEPT STAT,MADISON,WI 53706; [Gilbert, GS] UNIV WISCONSIN,DEPT PLANT PATHOL,MADISON,WI 53706, USA								27							Ecology; Marine & Freshwater Biology; Microbiology	WOS:A1996UZ02100002		
